Explainable Depression Assessment from Face Videos
by Weakly Supervised Learning
Rongfan Liao1,2, Xiangyu Kong2, Shiqing Tang2,3, Lang He4, Changzeng Fu5, Weichang Xie6,
Xiaofeng Liu7, Lu Liu2, Siyang Song2*
1University of Leicester, UK
2HBUG Lab, University of Exeter, UK
3Shanghai University of Science and Technology, China
4Xi’an University of Posts and Telecommunications, China
5Northeastern University, China
6Shenzhen University, China
7Hohai University, China
Abstract
Existing
video-based
automatic
depression
assessment
(ADA) approaches frequently achieve video-level depression
assessment by aggregating features or predictions of individ-
ual frames or equal-length segments within the given video.
While their performances have been largely enhanced by re-
cent advanced deep learning models, they typically fail to ex-
plicitly consider the varied importance of depression-related
behavioural cues across different video segments, i.e., seg-
ments within one video may contain behaviours reflecting
varying levels of depression. Underestimating segment-level
variations can obscure the detection of facial behaviour cues
associated with depression, thereby undermining the accu-
racy and interpretability of video-based depression detection
systems. In this paper, we propose a novel video-based ADA
approach that specifically identifies and differentiates video
segments that exhibit depression-related facial behaviours
across varying temporal durations, providing clear insights
into how each segment contributes to the video-level depres-
sion prediction. To achieve this, a novel weakly supervised
strategy is proposed to compare segment-level behaviours
with video-level depression label, enabling the model to as-
sign depression-relevant scores to multiple temporal scale
video segments and attend selectively to those most indica-
tive of depressive states. Extensive experiments on the AVEC
2013 and AVEC 2014 face video depression datasets demon-
strate the effectiveness of our approach.
Code — https://github.com/liaorongfan/ExpADA
Introduction
Depression is the most common mental health disorder char-
acterised by persistent negative emotions and a loss of in-
terest in activities (Rottenberg 2017). It manifests through
a range of symptoms that affect human emotion, cognitive
processes, and physical well-beings, sometimes even esca-
lating to suicidal thoughts and behaviours (Stehman et al.
2019; Zhang et al. 2020). To prevent the progression of de-
pression, early detection plays an important role in facili-
*Corresponding author (s.song@exeter.ac.uk).
Copyright © 2026, Association for the Advancement of Artificial
Intelligence (www.aaai.org). All rights reserved.
Figure 1: Current video-based ADA typically employs
decision-level methods that average frame/segment-level
predictions into video-level prediction or feature-level
methods that fuse features extracted from frames/segments
to model video-level temporal representation for depres-
sion prediction. However, decision-level methods take static
frames or equal-length segments as input, which fall short
in capturing depression-related facial behaviours across var-
ious durations. Moreover, both decision- and feature-level
methods normally treat every frame/segment equally in
their relevance to the video-level depression severity, which
overlook the negative influence of less relevant or noisy
frames/segments within the video. Our method selects
depression-relate segments at various temporal scales for
video level depression detection, which not only improves
the accuracy but also provide interpretability for the video-
base ADA process.
tating timely and proper treatment. While previous studies
have consistently shown that facial behaviours provide re-
The Fortieth AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence (AAAI-26)
1928
liable indicators of depression (Ellgring 2007), which can
be easily captured via non-invasive cameras, numerous face
video-based automatic depression assessment (ADA) meth-
ods have been proposed (Song et al. 2022; Jaiswal, Song,
and Valstar 2019; De Melo, Granger, and Lopez 2020; Ud-
din, Joolee, and Lee 2020; Song et al. 2024), to offer easily
accessible ways for daily depression monitoring.
Recent advances in deep learning (DL) have demonstrated
significant potentials in modeling depression-related spatio-
temporal facial cues for video-based ADA (He et al. 2022;
Niu et al. 2022; de Melo, Granger, and Lopez 2021). Due
to the high memory costs in directly processing long videos,
most of these DL-based approaches divide videos into a set
of individual frames or equal-length short segments (Liao,
Song, and Gunes 2024). These approaches typically model
depression-relevant representations (Xu et al. 2024; Niu
et al. 2020) or make predictions (Mao et al. 2022; De Melo,
Granger, and Lopez 2020; Niu et al. 2022) from static-
frames/short-segments, and then aggregate the representa-
tions/predictions to achieve the final video-level depression
prediction. They equally associate every frame/short seg-
ment with the corresponding overall video-level depression
label to train their models, despite that the depression diag-
nostic relevance of facial behaviours can vary substantially
across different frames/segments of the same video (He et al.
2022). As a result, their training may be degraded by pair-
ing facial frames/segments with incorrect depression labels,
impairing their ability to detect the most indicative facial be-
haviours associated with depression.
Due to the lack of well-annotated labels to assess the
relevance of each face video frame/segment to its video-
level depression severity, existing video-based ADA meth-
ods typically fail to accurately differentiate the importance
of every frame/segment contributing to final video-level de-
pression status prediction nor prioritise the most depression-
relevant facial behaviours for the final assessment (Problem
1). Although depression is more reliable to be reflected
by long-term facial behaviours (Wang et al. 2024), only
a few of existing methods (Gahalawat et al. 2023; Pan
et al. 2023a; He et al. 2024c) explain frame-level or short
segment-level depression-related facial behaviours, leav-
ing multi-scale video-level interpretability underexplored.
Moreover, the depression-related facial behaviours could
vary in their duration, making static-frame-based and fixed-
length-segment based methods fail to accurately explain all
crucial facial-behavioural depression biomarkers (Problem
2). Addressing these problems can not only facilitate to train
reliable video-level ADA models by locating depression-
related facial behaviours while minimising the impact of ir-
relevant facial behaviours, but also enhance interpretability
of the ADA process.
This paper presents a novel video-based explainable ADA
approach that identifies depression-related facial behaviours
by analysing the relevance of video segments at multiple
temporal scales to video-level depression status. Specifi-
cally, the approach begins by extracting spatio-temporal fea-
tures from equal-length video segments, which are then
sequentially combined to form facial behaviour represen-
tations at multiple temporal scales. These representations
are subsequently scored to reflect their relevance to the fi-
nal video-level depression prediction, enabling the model
to prioritise the most informative facial behaviours of var-
ious temporal scales in deciding the final video-level de-
pression severity. Since only video-level depression labels
are available for the model training, we propose a novel
weakly supervised training strategy that selects facial be-
haviours within multiple temporal scale segments which are
associated with the labelled video-level depression severity
category (none, mild, modest or severe). This way, our ap-
proach provides a more accurate and consistent analysis for
video-level depression assessment. Figure 1 compares our
novel approach with existing video-based ADA solutions.
The main novelties and contributions of this paper are sum-
marised as follows:
• We propose a novel weakly supervised training strat-
egy that specifically identifies depression-informative fa-
cial behaviours across multiple temporal scales in face
videos, which enables the selection of the most relevant
facial segments at multiple temporal scales for more pre-
cise video-based ADA, while mitigating the influence of
unrelated or noisy segments.
• We propose a novel video-level explainable ADA ap-
proach that identifies and localizes depression-relevant
facial behaviours across multiple temporal scales. To the
best of our knowledge, this is the first attempt to pro-
vide video-level temporally fine-grained interpretability
for video-based ADA at multiple temporal scales.
• Extensive experiments demonstrate that our approach
achieved state-of-the-art performance in video-based
ADA on AVEC 2013 and 2014 benchmark datasets. Es-
pecially on AVEC 2014 dataset, our approach outper-
forms most existing models in the field.
Related Work
Video-based automatic depression assessment: Due to the
limited memory and computation capability of existing de-
vices, most existing video-based ADA approaches extract
depression-relevant information either at the frame level or
from uniformly divided video segments. Specifically, frame-
level ADA methods (Uddin, Joolee, and Lee 2020; He,
Chan, and Wang 2021; Yang et al. 2024; Pan et al. 2024)
frequently learn static facial features from every frame, cap-
turing frame-level static facial cues associated with depres-
sion. Meanwhile, segment-level methods (Zhou et al. 2020;
Zhang et al. 2023; He et al. 2024a; Xu et al. 2024) divide
videos into a set of fixed-length segments and extract short-
term spatio-temporal facial features from each of them. Sub-
sequently, some studies (Niu et al. 2020; Yan et al. 2024;
He et al. 2025) propose various strategies to effectively inte-
grate (e.g., temporal modelling) features/predictions across
all frame/segment-level features for more accurate and ro-
bust video-level ADA. To capture more holistic video-level
information, some alternative ADA approaches (Song et al.
2022; de Melo, Granger, and Lopez 2021; Wu et al. 2025;
Song, Shen, and Valstar 2018) directly construct video-level
representation to infer depression, despite that they fail to
include all facial behaviours provided by the video as they
1929
remove frames/spectral components during the video-level
representation learning. More importantly, none of such ap-
proaches specifically considers the varying differences of
multi-scale frame/segment-level facial behaviours in reflect-
ing video-level depression severity, thereby suffering from
poor interpretability of their predictions.
Explainable video-base depression assessment: There a
few prior approaches attempted to explain video-based ADA
results in terms of frame-level or short-term facial be-
haviours. Some of them apply a set of pre-defined facial
primitives to provide explanations. For example, based on
facial action units (AUs), head pose, and gaze trajectories,
Mahayossanunt et al. (Mahayossanunt et al. 2023) employs
Integrated Gradients (Sundararajan, Taly, and Yan 2017)
to quantify the importance of each descriptor in predicting
PHQ scores. Gahalawat et al. (Gahalawat et al. 2023) mod-
els head movements using a set of discrete motion primitives
(e.g., nod, shake, tilt), revealing that depressed participants
often lack typical head gestures like upward nods. Niu et al.
(Niu, Li, and Fu 2024) leverages self-attention to highlight
most informative spatio-temporal facial behaviours in the
form of their facial landmark sequence. Alternatively, other
solutions aim to explain the prediction at the pixel level.
The STA-DRN (Pan et al. 2023a) employs spatial-temporal
attention maps to highlight depression-discriminative fa-
cial regions such as the eye and cheek areas. The TCEDN
(Yan et al. 2024) enhances interpretability through attention-
based feature aggregation and motion encoding. Grad-CAM
visualisation on input images consistently attends to clini-
cally relevant regions, such as the eyes, eyebrows, and sur-
rounding areas. Similarly, He et al. (He et al. 2024c) stacks
multi-scale Transformer blocks on a 3-D CNN backbone to
produce frame-level Grad-CAM maps across every short fa-
cial behaviour segments, suggesting that eye blinks, mouth
droops and cheek twitches are crucial for ADA.
Methodology
Overview: As illustrated in Figure 2, given a face video V
that has been divided into N non-overlapped equal-length
segments V = {vn}N
n=1, our approach starts with the Multi-
scale Temporal Behaviour Encoder (MTE) which first
encodes each segment vn into a segment-level facial be-
haviour feature unit (FU) f v
n ∈RD (D denotes the fea-
ture dimension). Then, it processes all FUs ({f v
n}N
n=1) ex-
tracted from the given video V into S sets of representations
F = {F (s)}s∈{1,...,S} describing facial behaviours from S
different temporal scales as:
F = MTE(V ),
(1)
where F (s) = {f (s)
n }N−s+1
n=1
∈F corresponds to the repre-
sentation set at the s temporal scale, then the total number
of representations in F can be denoted as M = P
s∈S(N −
s + 1).
Subsequently, a Discriminative Feature Selection (DFS)
module selects depression-informative facial-behaviour rep-
resentations at multiple temporal scales from F for final de-
pression score prediction as:
Fsel = DFS
 F

,
Fsel ⊂F.
(2)
Specifically, for each facial-behaviour representation f (s)
n
∈
F extracted across temporal scale s, The DFS module pre-
dicts a raw depression category and its confidence:
(ˆy(s)
n , ˆc(s)
n ) = DFS(f (s)
n ),
∀f (s)
n
∈F
(3)
where ˆy(s)
n
∈{none, mild, moderate, severe} and ˆc(s)
n
∈
[0, 1]. The video-level depression category is decided by the
most frequently predicted category among all the represen-
tations in F as:
I = mode

ˆy(s)
n
| ∀s, n
	
,
(4)
Then, the DFS module selects the top p% most confident
representations that support the video-level depression cate-
gory I, while ignoring the other less relevant representations
as:
Fsel = Topp%
 {f (s)
n
| ˆy(s)
n
= I}, ˆc(s)
n

.
(5)
Finally, a predictor head processes the selected represen-
tations Fsel to predict individual depression scores, which
are then averaged into the final video-level depression sever-
ity score, as:
Ds = mean(FC(Fsel))
(6)
where FC(·) represents fully connected layers.
Depression Indicative Segments Identification
Multi-scale Temporal Behaviour Encoder
The MTE
module follows previous video-based ADA approaches (Xu
et al. 2024; He et al. 2024b) to first divide the given video
V into a sequence of equal-length (T frames) segments
{vn}N
n=1, followed by a Video Action Transformer (VAT)
(Girdhar et al. 2019) employed to extract a segment-level
facial behaviour feature f v
n (referred as a facial behaviour
feature unit (FU)) from each segment {vn}. Then, we pro-
pose a multi-scale feature fusion strategy on the obtained
FUs to capture facial behaviours at multiple temporal scales.
As illustrated in Figure 2, the MTE applies a sliding window
mechanism over the sequence of extracted FUs {f v
n}N
n=1 to
construct facial behaviour representations at S different tem-
poral scales by concatenating s (s = {1, 2, · · · , S|S ≪N})
consecutive FUs in the temporal dimension with a stride of
one FU. These concatenated representations describing fa-
cial behaviours at S different temporal scales are individu-
ally fed to S distinct Multi-Layer Perceptrons (MLPs), pro-
jecting them into a latent space with the same dimension D
as:
F (s) = {f (s)
n }N−s+1
n=1
f (s)
n
= MLPs(cat({f v
i }n+s−1
i=n
)) ∈RD
(7)
where cat(·) denotes concatenation operation. This way, rep-
resentation sets F = {F (s)}s∈{1,...,S} describing facial be-
haviours at S different temporal scales can be obtained.
Discriminative Feature Selection
As illustrated in Figure
2, every temporal representation f (s)
n
∈RD in the obtained
F is first fed to a MLP-based classification branch to indi-
vidually predict its indicative depression category as:
Pn,c = Softmax
n
( ˆH1)
ˆH1 = MLPrel({f (s)
n }N
n=1),
(8)
1930
Figure 2: The proposed approach consists of three modules: Multi-scale Temporal Behaviour Encoder (MTE) module, Discrim-
inative Feature Selection (DFS) module and a prediction head. The MTE module takes equal-length segments {vn} as input,
extracts segment features {f v
n} and constructs multiple temporal scale facial behaviour representations F. (For the convenience
of visualisation temporal scale (s) at 1 and 3 are presented in the figure.) Subsequently, the DFS module digests the F represen-
tations for the selection of depression-related representations, which are denoted as Fsel. Finally, the selected representations
are sent to a predictor head for video-level depression assessment.
where c = 1, . . . , C and C denotes the number of de-
pression categories (e.g., none, mild, modest and severe).
s = 1, . . . , S represents the temporal scales . Accurately
analysing video-level depression category from video seg-
ments at various temporal scales depends on effectively eval-
uating the relevance of facial behaviour segments to the
video-level depression category. To achieve this, for each
depression category c, we explicitly predict relevance scores
for all facial behaviour representations across all temporal
scales in F = {F (s)}s∈{1,...,S} by sending them into a
MLP-based classification relevance branch, as:
Rn,c = Softmax
n
( ˆH2)
ˆH2 = MLPrel({f (s)
n }N
n=1),
(9)
The P ∈RM×C denotes the matrix of predicted category
probabilities from all M facial behaviour representations in
F, and Rn,c ∈RM×C denotes the matrix of predicted rele-
vance scores of each facial behaviour representation in F to
every depression category c. Then the weighted video-level
category prediction zc can be achieved by:
ˆR = P ⊗R
zc =
M
X
n=1
ˆRn,c
(10)
where ⊗denotes element-wise multiply and c = 1, . . . , C.
The video-level depression category can be identified as I =
arg maxc zc.
This updated relevance matrix ˆR can provide a more ac-
curate evaluation of each representation’s relevance to the
depression category by ensuring the most depression-related
representations are also supporting the video-level depres-
sion category I. Since the relevance vector ˆr =
ˆR:,I
(referred as segment depression relevance scores (SDR))
quantifies the relevance of each representation in F to
the video-level depression category prediction, highlight-
ing the segments corresponding to the representations with
top-ranked relevance in ˆr can provide segment-level inter-
pretability for video-based ADA, i.e., which segments are
most informative to the video-level depression category.
Finally, to mitigate the influence of less relevant or noisy
representations, the top K representations, ranked by SDR
ˆr ∈RM, are selected and denoted as Fp. These selected rep-
resentations are passed to a downstream MLP-based predic-
tion head to predict video-level depression scores y ∈RK
individually, where K = ⌊p% · M⌋and p represents the se-
lection ratio. The final video-level depression score is the
average of y.
Training Strategy and Loss Functions
We are the first to formulate the identification of depression-
informative facial behaviour segments across multiple tem-
poral scales as a weakly supervised learning task guided by
ordinal depression severity categories (none, mild, moder-
ate, and severe) derived from annotated depression scores.
This is achieved by propagating the video-level ordinal la-
bels to all segments during training, encouraging the model
to focus on temporally localized facial behaviours that
align with the overall depression severity. The rationale for
identifying depression-relevant facial behaviour segments
is grounded in the assumption that, given a ground-truth
(GT) depression score (reflecting the severity category) for
a video, certain temporal intervals must exhibit facial be-
haviours that reflect this underlying depression status. How-
ever, explicit segment-level annotations are unavailable but
only video-level category labels. Inspired by weakly super-
vised temporal action localization (WSTAL) methods (Ren
1931
et al. 2023; Li, Wang, and Liu 2024), which localize ac-
tion intervals using only video-level class labels, we refor-
mulate the depression-related interval localization task as
a segment-level facial behaviour classification problem. To
this end, we aggregate segment-level predictions and align
them with the video-level GT depression category, enabling
the model to learn depression-relevant segments location
by classification under weak supervision. Our method is
conceptually simple yet effective, avoiding complex infer-
ence mechanisms while achieving accurate and interpretable
video-level depression prediction.
Specifically, our training strategy is achieved via two
main steps. The first step is to train a category sensitive
spatial temporal encoder for depression-related feature ex-
traction. The second step is to further learn how to se-
lect depression-informative facial behaviours among multi-
ple temporal scale durations base on the extracted segment-
level feature from the encoder.
Training Spatial-Temporal Encoder
We first train a VAT
model to extract spaito-temporal facial behaviour features
from fixed-length video segments (e.g., 32 consecutive
frames). During training, the given video V is split into seg-
ments {vn}N
n=1 with equal-length of T frames and an over-
lap of T/2 between the adjacent segments. Each segment is
paired with the corresponding ground-truth (GT) video-level
depression score y∗(0−63), representing four depression
categories (none, mild, modest or severe). The VAT model
takes a video segment vn as input and predicts its depression
score yn ∈R and depression category probability cn ∈R4
. The training loss for depression score regression is the
Mean Squared Error (MSE). The spatial-temporal encoder
trained with only the depress score regression is referred as
base regression method. To enhance the model’s ability to
distinguish depression categories, we incorporate an ordi-
nal classification loss for category prediction and combine
it with the MSE loss for VAT model training (referred to
as the ordinal regression method). For ordinal classifica-
tion, we treat the four severity categories as three ordered
binary tasks. We define indicator targets tn,k = I[c∗
n > k]
for k ∈{0, 1, 2}, which specify whether the GT category
exceeds threshold k. The model predicts the corresponding
ordered probabilities via a sigmoid function:
pn = σ(cn).
(11)
The ordinal classification loss is the average binary cross-
entropy across all thresholds:
LORD = −1
N
N
X
n=1
2
X
k=0
[tn,k log pn,k+(1−tn,k) log(1−pn,k)],
(12)
where N is the number of segments.
Training Multiple Temporal Scale Representation Selec-
tion
In the second training step, The MTE and DFS mod-
ules are jointly optimized such that the extraction of multiple
temporal scale representation is guided by the downstream
supervision of video-level depression classification and re-
gression. The MTE module first employs the trained VAT
model to extract facial behaviour features from fixed-length
non-overlap segments within the given video (referred as
facial-behaviour feature units(FUs)). Those FUs are then
fused to construct multiple temporal scale representations
F by MTE module, describing facial behaviours at different
temporal scales. Subsequently, the DFS module takes each
representation f (s)
n
at multiple temporal scale in F as input
and predicts depression category probability pn,c and cat-
egory relevance scores rc,n individually (Eqa. ?? and ??).
Give the GT depression category c∗as a one-hot vector, the
weakly supervised learning (WSL) loss can be formulated
as:
LWSL = −1
4
4
X
i=1
[c∗
i log(zi) + (1 −c∗
i ) log(1 −zi)] , (13)
zc =
M
X
n=1
Pn,c · Rn,c
(14)
where M is the total number of representations in F, and
c = 1, . . . , 4. In addition to increase the discriminative abil-
ity and suppress the influence of less relevant representa-
tions, we select representations evaluated into the top 20%
most related ones by Eqa. 5. Those selected representations
Fsel are further processed by FC-based head for depres-
sion score y and category probability c prediction, where
MSE and BCE loss are employed respectively. So the overall
training loss for MTE and DFS module can be summarised
as:
L = LWSL + LMSE + LBCE
(15)
Experiments
Datasets and Implementation details
Dataset: We evaluate our approach on two visual depres-
sion assessment benchmark datasets: AVEC 2013 (Valstar
et al. 2013) and 2014 (Valstar et al. 2014) as AVEC 2019
(Ringeval et al. 2019) has not released raw videos. Partic-
ipants in both datasets are labelled with depression scores
ranging from 0 to 63 based on the BDI-II. The AVEC 2013
recorded a total of 150 video clips, length in 20 – 50 minutes,
from 82 participants. The AVEC 2014 contains two subsets:
Northwind and Freeform, each with 150 clips ranging from
6 seconds to 4 minutes. Both datasets were evenly divided
into three subsets: training, development and testing.
Metrics: To compare the performance of our approach with
others, We follow previous studies (Valstar et al. 2013,
2014; Xu et al. 2024) by measuring root mean square error
(RMSE) and mean absolute error (MAE).
Implementation details: We utilized Openface2 (Bal-
truˇsaitis, Robinson, and Morency 2016) to obtain face im-
ages from video frames and resize them to a resolution of
224 × 224 pixels. For data augmentation, we applied ran-
dom horizontal flipping and color jittering. In the first train-
ing step, the VAT model was trained for 15 epochs using the
Adam optimizer. In the second training step, the MTE and
DFS module were jointly trained for 80 epochs using the
stochastic gradient descent (SGD) optimizer.
1932
Methods
AVEC 2013
AVEC 2014
RMSE↓
MAE↓
RMSE↓
MAE↓
(Meng et al. 2013)
13.61
10.88
10.86
8.86
(Zhu et al. 2017)
9.82
7.58
9.55
7.47
(Al Jazaery and Guo 2018)
9.28
7.37
9.20
7.22
(Zhou et al. 2018)
8.28
6.20
8.39
6.21
(de Melo, Granger, and Hadid 2019)
8.26
6.40
8.31
6.59
(Song et al. 2022)
8.10
6.16
7.15
5.95
(De Melo, Granger, and Lopez 2020)
7.97
5.69
7.94
6.20
(De Melo, Granger, and Hadid 2020)
7.90
5.98
7.61
5.82
(Uddin, Joolee, and Lee 2020)
8.93
7.04
8.78
6.86
(He, Chan, and Wang 2021)
8.39
6.59
8.30
6.51
(Niu et al. 2022)
7.42
6.09
7.39
5.87
(Uddin, Joolee, and Sohn 2022)
7.32
5.90
6.98
5.75
(Pan et al. 2023b)
7.26
5.97
7.30
5.99
(Niu et al. 2024)
7.49
5.43
7.27
5.63
(Xu et al. 2024)
7.57
5.95
7.18
5.86
Ours
7.48
5.77
6.89
5.11
Table 1: Results achieved for AVEC 2013 and 2014 test sets.
Comparison with Existing Methods
Table 1 compares our proposed approach with existing state-
of-the-art methods, where our proposed method achieved
competitive performance compared to other depression de-
tection methods on both AVEC datasets. On the AVEC 2013
dataset, our method achieved a RMSE of 7.48, compara-
ble to the performance of state-of-the-art (SOTA) models
applied to this dataset. These results highlight the effec-
tiveness of our approach in accurately performing ADA.
On the AVEC 2014 dataset, the proposed method achieved
SOTA performance with an RMSE of 6.89. This result
demonstrates that leveraging video-level depression sever-
ity category to guide the selection of the most depression-
relevant video segments enhances depression prediction per-
formance. The AVEC 2014 dataset comprises two sub-
subsets for the same subjects, Freeform and Northwind. We
achieved optimal results by employing a decision-level fu-
sion of video-level predictions from both sub-datasets. Re-
sults related to each sub-subset are included in the supple-
mentary materials.
Ablation Study
We conducted comprehensive ablation studies on both
datasets. In addition, the analysis of the top p% relevant
representations selection ratio and the segment length T
for segment-level facial behaviour feature extraction is pre-
sented in Supplementary Material.
Base regression method: As shown in Table 2, The
base regression training, trained on video segments only us-
ing the MSE loss, achieved RMSE values of 9.15, 9.26,
and 9.22, and MAE values of 7.52, 7.40, and 7.71 on the
AVEC2013, Freeform, and Northwind datasets, respectively.
These results establish the baseline performance of our pro-
posed method, which are used for further evaluation in
subsequent experiments. Ordinal regression method: To
improve the VAT and DFS model’s sensitivity to depres-
sion category cues, we employed ordinal regression for loss
computation, resulting in significant performance improve-
ments. Specifically, on the AVEC 2013 dataset, we observed
RMSE and MAE reductions of 9.2% and 11.2%, respec-
tively. On the Freeform dataset, RMSE decreased by 14.3%
and MAE by 13.7%, while on the Northwind dataset, RMSE
and MAE were reduced by 19.2% and 23.9%, respectively.
These accuracy gains highlight the model’s improved abil-
ity to identify and discriminate facial behaviour segments
corresponding to varying category of depression severity,
thereby enhancing its predictive accuracy. Feature selec-
tion method: The proposed the weakly supervised learn-
ing method identifies and prioritizes the most depression-
related facial behaviour segments for video-level depression
prediction, which significantly outperforms the ordinal re-
gression methods that indiscriminately uses all segments.
Specifically, RMSE and MAE were reduced by 12.0% and
17.2% on the AVEC 2013 dataset, respectively; by 3.4% and
10.2% on the Freeform dataset and 7.3% and 14.0% on the
Northwind dataset.
Dataset
Method
MAE↓
RMSE↓
AVEC2013
Base regression
7.52
9.15
Ordinal regression
6.76
8.38
Feature selection
5.77
7.48
Freeform
Base regression
7.40
9.26
Ordinal regression
6.51
8.10
Feature selection
5.83
7.64
Northwind
Base regression
7.71
9.22
Ordinal regression
5.93
7.53
Feature selection
5.20
7.02
Table 2: Results on AVEC2013 and 2014 (Northwind and
Freeform) datasets across various training methods.
Visualization
In this section, we aim to illustrate the advantages of our
method in identifying and selecting multiple temporal scale
segments for ADA in terms of interpretability, discrimina-
tion and effectiveness.
Interpretability: As shown in Figure 3, we plot the seg-
ment depression relevance scores (SDR) ˆr for each seg-
ment along the temporal axis. Each multiple temporal scale
segment is represented by a point, with red, green, and
blue colour indicating segments at temporal scales of 32,
64, and 96 frames, respectively. The visualisation result
demonstrates that multiple temporal scale segments high-
light depression-related facial behaviours across varying du-
rations. The relevance scores fluctuate along the temporal
axis, indicating that certain segments are more strongly cor-
related with video-level depression severity category. These
segments highlighted by heatmap underscore the ability of
our approach to identify depression-related facial behaviours
across various durations.
Discrimination: Figure 4 demonstrates the importance
of selecting discriminative segment representations at mul-
tiple temporal scales. For each video in the test dataset,
we extract the multiple temporal scale representations F
from it and compute the corresponding SDR ˆr for each
segment representation, such that the top 20% depression-
relevant representations and bottom 20% less relevant rep-
1933
Figure 3: Our approach identifies the most depression-
related facial behaviours at multiple temporal scales, shown
as the highlighted part in the heatmap for each video, where
the darker colour means the less relevant. The figure shows
three video’s depression-related segments across three tem-
poral scales (S = 1, 2, 3), In each visualized video, seg-
ments in the same temporal scale are represented by sequen-
tial points with the same colour, which denote the relevance
scores of segments to the video level depression prediction.
The red, green, and blue points indicates segments at tem-
poral scales of 32, 64, and 96 frames respectively.
resentations in each video can be collected respectively
to construct a high-relevance representation-set and a low-
relevance representation-set. T-SNE is then employed to vi-
sualize the representation distributions of these two contrast-
ing sets as scatter plots. As illustrated in the left plot of Fig.4,
representations associated with the same depression severity
category cluster closely together, while representations asso-
ciated with different categories are well-separated. This in-
dicates that the representations in the high-relevance dataset
are discriminative to their prediction targets. In contrast, as
shown in the right plot of Fig.4, representations in the low-
relevance set exhibit significant overlap between different
severity categories, demonstrating that these representations
are not distinguishable. This clear comparison underscores
the importance of selecting high-relevant segments for ef-
fective video-level depression assessment.
We also evaluate the stability of SDR scores r for the face
videos by computing their cosine similarity among different
training rounds. We trained the model 5 times with random
initialisations and collected the SDR scores of 3 randomly
selected videos after the first training epoch, where the mean
pairwise cosine similarities for each video under 5 training
times are 0.94, 0.98, and 0.91, indicating the SDR scores are
stable across random initialisations.
Figure 4: The left plot describes a T-SNE embedding distri-
bution of the top 20% high-relevant representations derived
from all videos in the test dataset, while the right describes
the bottom 20% low-relevant representations.
Effectiveness: Figure 5 illustrates the deviations of video-
level depression predictions from their true labels. The scat-
ter plots demonstrate our method’s consistent accuracy in
depression detection, evidenced by the alignment of points
along the line that best fits.
Figure 5: Depression predictions from our approach versus
labels on AVEC 2014 and AVEC 2013 datasets.
Conclusion
In this work, we introduced a novel weakly supervised ap-
proach that prioritizes variable-length video segments con-
taining depression-related facial behaviours for video-based
ADA, while simultaneously improving the interpretabil-
ity of the ADA process by highlighting behaviour seg-
ments associated with depressive symptoms within a tar-
get video. However, the highlighted behaviours only reflect
the model’s internal confidence rather than expert-validated
clinical markers. Moreover, the applicability of our approach
is currently limited by the availability of suitable datasets,
where AVEC 2013/2014 remain the only publicly accessi-
ble dataset offering raw facial videos paired with rigours
depression labels. Expanding evaluation to larger and clini-
cally verified datasets will be an essential direction for future
work to improve the generalizability and the clinical credi-
bility of the approach.
1934
References
Al Jazaery, M.; and Guo, G. 2018.
Video-based depres-
sion level analysis by encoding deep spatiotemporal fea-
tures.
IEEE Transactions on Affective Computing, 12(1):
262–268.
Baltruˇsaitis, T.; Robinson, P.; and Morency, L.-P. 2016.
Openface: an open source facial behavior analysis toolkit. In
2016 IEEE winter conference on applications of computer
vision (WACV), 1–10. IEEE.
de Melo, W. C.; Granger, E.; and Hadid, A. 2019. Combin-
ing global and local convolutional 3d networks for detecting
depression from facial expressions. In 2019 14th ieee inter-
national conference on automatic face & gesture recognition
(fg 2019), 1–8. IEEE.
De Melo, W. C.; Granger, E.; and Hadid, A. 2020. A deep
multiscale spatiotemporal network for assessing depression
from facial dynamics. IEEE transactions on affective com-
puting, 13(3): 1581–1592.
De Melo, W. C.; Granger, E.; and Lopez, M. B. 2020.
Encoding temporal information for automatic depression
recognition from facial analysis.
In ICASSP 2020-2020
IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and
Signal Processing (ICASSP), 1080–1084. IEEE.
de Melo, W. C.; Granger, E.; and Lopez, M. B. 2021. MDN:
A deep maximization-differentiation network for spatio-
temporal depression detection. IEEE transactions on affec-
tive computing, 14(1): 578–590.
Ellgring, H. 2007. Non-verbal communication in depres-
sion. Cambridge University Press.
Gahalawat, M.; Rojas, R. F.; Guha, T.; Subramanian, R.;
and Goecke, R. 2023.
Explainable Depression Detection
via Head Motion Patterns. In Proc. 25th ACM Int. Conf.
on Multimodal Interaction (ICMI), 261–270.
Girdhar, R.; Carreira, J.; Doersch, C.; and Zisserman, A.
2019. Video action transformer network. In Proceedings of
the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern
recognition, 244–253.
He, L.; Chan, J. C.-W.; and Wang, Z. 2021. Automatic de-
pression recognition using CNN with attention mechanism
from videos. Neurocomputing, 422: 165–175.
He, L.; Guo, C.; Tiwari, P.; Pandey, H. M.; and Dang, W.
2022. Intelligent system for depression scale estimation with
facial expressions and case study in industrial intelligence.
International journal of intelligent systems, 37(12): 10140–
10156.
He, L.; Li, Z.; Tiwari, P.; Cao, C.; Xue, J.; Zhu, F.; and Wu,
D. 2024a.
Depressformer: Leveraging video swin trans-
former and fine-grained local features for depression scale
estimation. Biomedical Signal Processing and Control, 96:
106490.
He, L.; Zhao, J.; Zhang, J.; Jiang, J.; Qi, S.; Wang, Z.; and
Wu, D. 2024b. LMTformer: facial depression recognition
with lightweight multi-scale transformer from videos: LMT-
former: facial depression recognition... Applied Intelligence,
55(3).
He, L.; Zhao, J.; Zhang, J.; Jiang, J.; Qi, S.; Wang, Z.; and
Wu, D. 2025.
LMTformer: facial depression recognition
with lightweight multi-scale transformer from videos. Ap-
plied Intelligence, 55(3): 195.
He, L.; Zhao, J.; Zhang, M.; Jiang, J.; Qi, S.; Wang, Z.; and
Wu, D. 2024c. LMTformer: Facial Depression Recognition
with Lightweight Multi-Scale Transformer from Videos.
Applied Intelligence, 55(3): 195–210.
Jaiswal, S.; Song, S.; and Valstar, M. 2019. Automatic pre-
diction of depression and anxiety from behaviour and per-
sonality attributes. In 2019 8th international conference on
affective computing and intelligent interaction (acii), 1–7.
IEEE.
Li, Z.; Wang, Z.; and Liu, Q. 2024. Weakly supervised tem-
poral action localization with actionness-guided false posi-
tive suppression. Neural Networks, 175: 106307.
Liao, R.; Song, S.; and Gunes, H. 2024. An open-source
benchmark of deep learning models for audio-visual appar-
ent and self-reported personality recognition. IEEE Trans-
actions on Affective Computing, 15(3): 1590–1607.
Mahayossanunt, Y.; Nupairoj, N.; Hemrungrojn, S.; and Va-
teekul, P. 2023. Explainable Depression Detection Based on
Facial Expression Using LSTM on Attentional Intermedi-
ate Feature Fusion with Label Smoothing. Sensors, 23(23):
9402.
Mao, K.; Zhang, W.; Wang, D. B.; Li, A.; Jiao, R.; Zhu,
Y.; Wu, B.; Zheng, T.; Qian, L.; Lyu, W.; et al. 2022. Pre-
diction of depression severity based on the prosodic and
semantic features with bidirectional LSTM and time dis-
tributed CNN. IEEE transactions on affective computing,
14(3): 2251–2265.
Meng, H.; Huang, D.; Wang, H.; Yang, H.; Ai-Shuraifi, M.;
and Wang, Y. 2013. Depression recognition based on dy-
namic facial and vocal expression features using partial least
square regression. In Proceedings of the 3rd ACM interna-
tional workshop on Audio/visual emotion challenge, 21–30.
Niu, M.; Li, M.; and Fu, C. 2024. PointTransform Networks
for Automatic Depression Level Prediction via Facial Key-
points. Knowledge-Based Systems, 297: 111951.
Niu, M.; Li, Y.; Tao, J.; Zhou, X.; and Schuller, B. W. 2024.
DepressionMLP: A Multi-Layer Perceptron Architecture for
Automatic Depression Level Prediction via Facial Keypoints
and Action Units. IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Sys-
tems for Video Technology.
Niu, M.; Tao, J.; Liu, B.; Huang, J.; and Lian, Z. 2020. Mul-
timodal spatiotemporal representation for automatic depres-
sion level detection. IEEE transactions on affective comput-
ing, 14(1): 294–307.
Niu, M.; Zhao, Z.; Tao, J.; Li, Y.; and Schuller, B. W. 2022.
Selective element and two orders vectorization networks for
automatic depression severity diagnosis via facial changes.
IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems for Video Tech-
nology, 32(11): 8065–8077.
Pan, Y.; Shang, Y.; Liu, T.; Shao, Z.; Guo, G.; Ding, H.;
and Hu, Q. 2023a. Spatial–Temporal Attention Network for
Depression Recognition from Facial Videos. Expert Systems
with Applications, 237: 121410.
1935
Pan, Y.; Shang, Y.; Liu, T.; Shao, Z.; Guo, G.; Ding, H.;
and Hu, Q. 2024. Spatial–temporal attention network for
depression recognition from facial videos. Expert systems
with applications, 237: 121410.
Pan, Y.; Shang, Y.; Shao, Z.; Liu, T.; Guo, G.; and Ding, H.
2023b. Integrating deep facial priors into landmarks for pri-
vacy preserving multimodal depression recognition. IEEE
Transactions on Affective Computing.
Ren, H.; Yang, W.; Zhang, T.; and Zhang, Y. 2023. Proposal-
based multiple instance learning for weakly-supervised tem-
poral action localization. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF
conference on computer vision and pattern recognition,
2394–2404.
Ringeval, F.; Schuller, B.; Valstar, M.; Cummins, N.; Cowie,
R.; Tavabi, L.; Schmitt, M.; Alisamir, S.; Amiriparian, S.;
Messner, E.-M.; et al. 2019.
AVEC 2019 workshop and
challenge: state-of-mind, detecting depression with AI, and
cross-cultural affect recognition. In Proceedings of the 9th
International on Audio/visual Emotion Challenge and Work-
shop, 3–12.
Rottenberg, J. 2017. Emotions in depression: What do we
really know?
Annual Review of Clinical Psychology, 13:
241–263.
Song, S.; Jaiswal, S.; Shen, L.; and Valstar, M. 2022. Spec-
tral representation of behaviour primitives for depression
analysis. IEEE Transactions on Affective Computing, 13(2):
829–844.
Song, S.; Luo, Y.; Tumer, T.; Fu, C.; Valstar, M.; and Gunes,
H. 2024.
Loss relaxation strategy for noisy facial video-
based automatic depression recognition. ACM Transactions
on Computing for Healthcare, 5(2): 1–24.
Song, S.; Shen, L.; and Valstar, M. 2018. Human behaviour-
based automatic depression analysis using hand-crafted
statistics and deep learned spectral features. In 2018 13th
IEEE international conference on automatic face & gesture
recognition (FG 2018), 158–165. IEEE.
Stehman, C. R.; Testo, Z.; Gershaw, R. S.; and Kellogg,
A. R. 2019. Burnout, drop out, suicide: physician loss in
emergency medicine, part I. Western Journal of Emergency
Medicine, 20(3): 485.
Sundararajan, M.; Taly, A.; and Yan, Q. 2017. Axiomatic
attribution for deep networks. In International conference
on machine learning, 3319–3328. PMLR.
Uddin, M. A.; Joolee, J. B.; and Lee, Y.-K. 2020. Depression
level prediction using deep spatiotemporal features and mul-
tilayer bi-ltsm. IEEE Transactions on Affective Computing,
13(2): 864–870.
Uddin, M. A.; Joolee, J. B.; and Sohn, K.-A. 2022. Deep
multi-modal network based automated depression severity
estimation. IEEE transactions on affective computing.
Valstar, M.; Schuller, B.; Smith, K.; Almaev, T.; Eyben, F.;
Krajewski, J.; Cowie, R.; and Pantic, M. 2014. Avec 2014:
3d dimensional affect and depression recognition challenge.
In Proceedings of the 4th international workshop on au-
dio/visual emotion challenge, 3–10.
Valstar, M.; Schuller, B.; Smith, K.; Eyben, F.; Jiang, B.;
Bilakhia, S.; Schnieder, S.; Cowie, R.; and Pantic, M. 2013.
Avec 2013: the continuous audio/visual emotion and depres-
sion recognition challenge. In Proceedings of the 3rd ACM
international workshop on Audio/visual emotion challenge,
3–10.
Wang, R.; Huang, J.; Zhang, J.; Liu, X.; Zhang, X.; Liu, Z.;
Zhao, P.; Chen, S.; and Sun, X. 2024. FacialPulse: An ef-
ficient RNN-based depression detection via temporal facial
landmarks. In Proceedings of the 32nd ACM International
Conference on Multimedia, 311–320.
Wu, Z.; Zhou, L.; Li, S.; Fu, C.; Lu, J.; Han, J.; Zhang, Y.;
Zhao, Z.; and Song, S. 2025. DepMGNN: Matrixial Graph
Neural Network for Video-based Automatic Depression As-
sessment. In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artifi-
cial Intelligence, volume 39, 1610–1619.
Xu, J.; Gunes, H.; Kusumam, K.; Valstar, M.; and Song, S.
2024. Two-stage temporal modelling framework for video-
based depression recognition using graph representation.
IEEE Transactions on Affective Computing.
Yan, K.; Miao, S.; Jin, X.; Mu, Y.; Zheng, H.; Tian, Y.;
Wang, P.; Yu, Q.; and Hu, D. 2024. TCEDN: A Lightweight
Time-Context Enhanced Depression Detection Network.
Life, 14(10): 1313.
Yang, M.; Shang, Y.; Liu, J.; Shao, Z.; Liu, T.; Ding, H.;
and Li, H. 2024. LMS-VDR: Integrating Landmarks into
Multi-scale Hybrid Net for Video-Based Depression Recog-
nition. In Chinese Conference on Pattern Recognition and
Computer Vision (PRCV), 299–312. Springer.
Zhang, J.; Huen, J. M. Y.; Lew, B.; Chistopolskaya, K.;
Talib, M. A.; Siau, C. S.; and Leung, A. N. M. 2020. De-
pression, anxiety, and stress as a function of psychological
strains: Towards an etiological theory of mood disorders and
psychopathologies. Journal of affective disorders, 271: 279–
285.
Zhang, S.; Zhang, X.; Zhao, X.; Fang, J.; Niu, M.; Zhao, Z.;
Yu, J.; and Tian, Q. 2023. MTDAN: A lightweight multi-
scale temporal difference attention networks for automated
video depression detection. IEEE transactions on affective
computing, 15(3): 1078–1089.
Zhou, J.; Zhang, X.; Liu, Y.; and Lan, X. 2020. Facial ex-
pression recognition using spatial-temporal semantic graph
network. In 2020 IEEE International Conference on Image
Processing (ICIP), 1961–1965. IEEE.
Zhou, X.; Jin, K.; Shang, Y.; and Guo, G. 2018. Visually
interpretable representation learning for depression recog-
nition from facial images. IEEE transactions on affective
computing, 11(3): 542–552.
Zhu, Y.; Shang, Y.; Shao, Z.; and Guo, G. 2017. Automated
depression diagnosis based on deep networks to encode fa-
cial appearance and dynamics. IEEE Transactions on Affec-
tive Computing, 9(4): 578–584.
1936
