IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON CIRCUITS AND SYSTEMS FOR VIDEO TECHNOLOGY, VOL. 36, NO. 2, FEBRUARY 2026
2649
Multimodal Local Global Interaction Networks for
Automatic Depression Severity Estimation
Mingyue Niu , Zhuhong Shao, Yongjun He, Member, IEEE, Jianhua Tao, Senior Member, IEEE,
and Bj¨orn W. Schuller , Fellow, IEEE
Abstract—Physiological studies have shown that diﬀerences
between depressed and healthy individuals are manifested in the
audio and video modalities. Hence, some researchers have com-
bined local and global information from audio or video modality
to obtain the unimodal representation. Attention mechanisms or
Multi-Layer Perceptrons (MLPs) are then used to complete the
fusion of diﬀerent representations. However, attention mecha-
nisms or MLPs is essentially a linear aggregation manner, and
lacks the ability to explore the element-wise interaction between
local and global representations within and across modalities,
which aﬀects the accuracy of estimating the depression severity.
To this end, we propose a Representation Interaction (RI) module,
which uses the mutual linear adjustment to achieve element-
wise interaction between representations. Thus, the RI module
can be seen as an mutual observation of two representations,
which helps to achieve complementary advantages and improve
the model’s ability to characterize depression cues. Furthermore,
since the interaction process generates multiple representations,
we propose a Multi-representation Prediction (MP) module.
This module implements multi-representation vectorization in a
hierarchical manner from summarizing a single representation
to aggregating multiple representations, and adopts the attention
mechanism to obtain the estimation of an individual depression
severity. In this way, we use the RI and MP modules to construct
Received 12 March 2025; revised 2 June 2025, 8 July 2025, and 1 Septem-
ber 2025; accepted 18 September 2025. Date of publication 22 September
2025; date of current version 5 February 2026. This work was supported
in part by the Basic Innovation and Scientiﬁc Research Cultivation Project
of Yanshan University under Grant 2023LGQN006, in part by the National
Natural Science Foundation of China under Grant 62576302 and Grant
62473111, in part by Hebei Natural Science Foundation of China under
Grant F2025203083, and in part by the S&T Program of Hebei under Grant
246Z5309G. This article was recommended by Associate Editor S. T. Kim.
(Corresponding author: Jianhua Tao.)
Mingyue Niu is with the School of Information Science and Engineer-
ing, Yanshan University, Qinhuangdao, Hebei 066004, China, and also
with the Key Laboratory for Computer Virtual Technology and System
Integration of Hebei Province, Qinhuangdao 066004, China (e-mail: nium-
ingyue@ysu.edu.cn).
Zhuhong Shao is with the College of Information Engineering, Capital
Normal University, Beijing 100048, China, and also with Beijing Engineering
Research Center of Highly Reliable Embedded System, Beijing 100048, China
(e-mail: zhshao@cnu.edu.cn).
Yongjun He is with the School of Computer Science and Tech-
nology, Harbin Institute of Technology, Harbin 150001, China (e-mail:
heyongjun@hit.edu.cn).
Jianhua Tao is with the Department of Automation, Tsinghua University,
Beijing 100190, China, and also with the School of Artiﬁcial Intelligence,
University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100049, China (e-mail:
jhtao@tsinghua.edu.cn).
Bj¨orn W. Schuller is with the ZD.B Chair of Embedded Intelligence
for Health Care and Wellbeing, University of Augsburg, 86159 Augs-
burg, Germany, and also with the Group on Language, Audio, and Music
(GLAM), Imperial College London, SW7 2AZ London, U.K. (e-mail:
bjoern.schuller@imperial.ac.uk).
Digital Object Identiﬁer 10.1109/TCSVT.2025.3612697
the Multimodal Local Global Interaction (MLGI) network. The
experimental performance on AVEC 2013 and AVEC 2014
depression datasets demonstrates the eﬀectiveness of our method.
Index Terms—Multimodal depression severity estimation, local
and global representations, interaction.
I. INTRODUCTION
C
URRENTLY, with the increase of uncertain factors, peo-
ple have to bear more psychological pressure than before.
Chronic psychological stress can cause individuals to develop
mental illnesses. Among these diseases, depression is a mental
disorder that cannot be ignored. Some studies [1], [2] have
shown that depression can take away a person’s enjoyment
of life and cause serious damage to physical and mental
health. More regrettably, the diagnosis of depression lacks a
gold standard and relies on the results of a joint consultation
with experienced doctors. As a result, the complexity of the
diagnostic process not only accelerates physician fatigue but
also makes it diﬃcult for many patients to understand their
condition in a timely manner. Therefore, the use of AI tech-
nology to assist doctors in making diagnoses would go a long
way towards improving the current healthcare environment.
What gives hope is that physiological studies have shown
diﬀerences in audio [3], [4] and video [5], [6] modalities
between depressed and healthy individuals. Those facts pro-
vide a feasibility guarantee for estimating an individual’s
depression severity by examining speech signals and facial
dynamics. Therefore, many researchers have proposed vari-
ous methods [7], [8], [9], [10], [11], [12], [13] to capture
depression cues from audio and video modalities to predict
BDI-II scores, which are used to quantify an individual’s
depression level as shown in Table I. Those works tend to
extract unimodal features and then use diﬀerent fusion strate-
gies to achieve multimodal depression severity estimation.
For unimodal feature extraction, the works of [7], [8], [9],
[10], and [11] adopt Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN)
to obtain the representation of depression cues. Moreover,
the methods in [12] and [13] combine local and global
information to obtain unimodal features for enhancing the
characterization of depression cues. For multimodal feature
fusion, those works employ the attention mechanism [8], [9],
[10], [11], [13], element-wise multiplication [7] or Multi-Layer
Perceptrons (MLPs) [12] to complete the mixture of diﬀerent
representations. However, attention mechanisms or MLPs are
essentially a linear aggregation process, which is insuﬃcient
1051-8215 © 2025 IEEE. All rights reserved, including rights for text and data mining, and training of artiﬁcial intelligence and
similar technologies. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Yanshan University. Downloaded on April 20,2026 at 00:36:17 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
2650
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON CIRCUITS AND SYSTEMS FOR VIDEO TECHNOLOGY, VOL. 36, NO. 2, FEBRUARY 2026
TABLE I
BDI-II SCORE RANGES AND CORRESPONDING DEPRESSION DEGREES
to achieve interaction between diﬀerent representations. In
fact, for the representations of A and B (one token per row),
although the attention mechanism linearly aggregates the rows
of A using the weights generated by B (i.e., A · WB, where
WB is produced by B), this manner is an operation at the
token level and is weak in reﬂecting the impact of B on each
element of A. Similarly, the linear combination implemented
by MLPs on A and B is not suﬃcient to reﬂect the impact
of B on the all elements of A. Besides, the above works also
lack the exploration of the interaction between local and global
representations within and across modalities. Therefore, those
previous methods are limited in achieving complementary
advantages of various depression cue representations from
diﬀerent modalities.
To alleviate the above problems, we construct a Multi-
modal Local Global Interaction (MLGI) network to estimate
an individual’s depression severity via audio and video
modalities. In our model, two novel modules are proposed,
namely the Representation Interaction (RI) and the Multiple-
representation Prediction (MP) modules.The RI module uses
the representation A (B) to generate the coeﬃcient wA (wB)
and bias bA (bB) to linearly adjust each element in representa-
tion B (A), i.e., B⊙wA ⊕bA (A⊙wB ⊕bB), where ⊙and ⊕are
element-wise multiplication and addition, respectively. In this
way, the RI module achieves the interaction between A and
B at the element level. In fact, the mutual linear adjustment
between sequences in the RI module is a way to achieve
element-wise interaction. Thus, we can use the RI module to
enable interactions between local and global representations
within and across modalities, which not only promotes the
complementary advantages of diﬀerent representations but also
improves the model’s ability to characterize depression cues.
During the execution of RI module, multiple representations
are generated. The MP module is able to summarize each rep-
resentation as a vector and use a linear layer to aggregate the
summary vectors of diﬀerent representations. Furthermore, the
attention mechanism is adopted to obtain the depression sever-
ity estimation result for multiple representations. Thus, the
MP module is a process for implementing multi-representation
vectorization in a hierarchical manner and estimating BDI-II
scores.
In this way, we can estimate the depression severity of an
individual via several steps: First, we gain the Mel-Frequency
Cepstral Coeﬃcients (MFCC) of a subject’s long-term speech
signal and divide it into MFCC segments with a ﬁxed size.
Similarity, we divide the subject’s long-term facial video into
segments with a ﬁxed length and encode the frames in the
video segments with a pre-trained ResNet50. Second, those
MFCC segments and encoded video segments are fed into the
constructed MLGI network to obtain BDI-II scores. Finally,
the average of those predicted BDI-II scores from the segments
is viewed as the depression severity estimation result for
the corresponding subject. Experiments on two benchmark
datasets i.e., Audio/Video Emotion Challenge (AVEC) 2013
[14] and AVEC 2014 [15] show that our method is eﬀective
on the task of multimodal automatic depression severity esti-
mation. Our contribution can be summarized as follows:
(1) Our proposed RI module examines the impact of one
representation on each element of the other representation
in a mutually linear adjustable manner, thereby achieving
interaction between the two representations. Furthermore, we
use the RI module to complete the interaction between local
and global representations within and across modalities, which
is beneﬁcial for the complementary advantages of diﬀerent
representations and improves the model’s ability to character-
ize depression cues.
(2) Our proposed MP module implements vectorization on
multiple representations in a hierarchical manner by aggregat-
ing the summary results from each representation and adopts
the attention mechanism to obtain the estimation of depression
severity.
(3) We construct an end-to-end multimodal depression
severity estimation model i.e. MLGI network using RI and
MP modules. Experimental results on two benchmark datasets
not only demonstrate the eﬀectiveness of MLGI network,
but also show that interactions between local representations
across modalities are better able to capture diﬀerences between
individuals with diﬀerent depression levels than interactions
between other representations.
II. RELATED WORKS
In this paper, we construct the MLGI network to estimate
an individual’s depression severity by examining local and
global representations of audio and video modalities. Thus,
some relevant research works be brieﬂy reviewed.
A. Combination of Local and Global Information
Architectural design approaches that combine local and
global information to enhance the perception ability of the
model have been widely adopted [16], [17], [18], [19], [20].
Considering the strengths of CNN and Transformer to model
local and global dependencies of data, Gulati et al. [21]
designed an architecture called Conformer to concatenate
Multi-Head Self-Attention (MHSA) and convolution module
to improve the accuracy of speech recognition. Similarly,
Peng et al. [22] proposed a network architecture also named
Conformer in the ﬁeld of image processing. The model was
designed with a CNN branch and a Transformer branch, and
the coupling between those two branches was accomplished
by down-sampling and up-sampling operations. Dai et al. [23]
considered the advantages of CNN and Transformer in
terms of generalization and modeling capabilities, respectively.
Therefore, they used the relative attention to unify CNN and
Transformer into one basic computational module to enhance
the model’s representation ability.
In the work of [24], Li et al. argued that CNNs, while
reducing computational redundancy, could only examine local
Authorized licensed use limited to: Yanshan University. Downloaded on April 20,2026 at 00:36:17 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
NIU et al.: MLGI NETWORKS FOR AUTOMATIC DEPRESSION SEVERITY ESTIMATION
2651
neighborhoods. On the contrary, the tranformer is able to
capture global dependencies despite its high redundancy.
Therefore, to integrate the merits of convolutional layers and
self-attention into a concise form, they proposed a Uniﬁed
transFormer model. In the shallow layers of this model, a
small matrix with learnable parameters was used to capture the
local token aﬃnity and reduced the computational redundancy
in the process of aggregating the contextual content of the
local regions. With the same consideration, Guo et al. [25]
used Depth-Wise Convolution (DWC) to reduce the spatial
resolution of the data and injected the results into the self-
attention mechanism to balance the representation ability and
computational cost. Similarly, Wu et al. [26] also used DWC to
reduce the dimensionality of tokens in the self-attention mech-
anism for ﬁnding a trade-oﬀbetween local-global information
extraction and computational cost.
From the above works, we can see that the combination
of local and global information improves the model’s perfor-
mance on the target tasks. However, the above methods mainly
adopt sequential connections of the convolutional module and
MHSA to achieve the interaction between local and global
representations, which makes it diﬃcult to examine the impact
of local (global) representations on every element of global
(local) representations.
B. Multimodal Depression Severity Estimation
In recent years, the research on multimodal-based automatic
depression severity estimation has received increasing atten-
tion. The method proposed by Chordia et al. [27] contained
two streams. For the visual stream, the pre-trained VGG-
Face model was used to encode all the frames. The Feature
Dynamic History Histogram (FDHH) algorithm was to capture
the dynamic patterns related to depression. Singular Value
Decomposition (SVD) was applied to reduce the dimension-
ality. For the audio stream, they extracted the Mel-frequency
cepstral coeﬃcients (MFCCs), zero-crossing, and short-term
energy features. Finally, the estimation of depression severity
was obtained by a decision-level fusion strategy. Fan et al. [11]
adopted CNNs to extract the high-level audio and video
features. Then, multiple Transformers were used to capture
the dynamics among each time step within and between
modalities. Finally, they used the graph neural network and
fully connected layers for multimodal fusion and BDI-II
score prediction, respectively. Considering the global temporal
properties of audio and video data, Li et al. [10] proposed a
cross-modal fusion network. This model examined the global
information of the audio and video representations using
the self-attention mechanism, and obtained the multimodal
depression cue representation in the form of feature weighting.
In order to take into account the spatio-temporal properties
of audio and video data in the depression severity estimation
task, Uddin et al. [7] combined CNN and LSTM to extract
unimodal features. Then, they implemented multimodal fusion
through sum pooling and obtained the estimation result with
a fully connected layer. Similarly, in [9], the authors extracted
audio and video spatio-temporal features by using a combina-
tion of CNN and LSTM. Moreover, a cross-modal attention
module was used to achieve inter-modal complementarity and
Fig. 1.
The complete ﬂowchart of our constructed MLGI network for
automatic depression severity estimation. “R” refers to encoding video
segments into sequences using the pre-trained ResNet50. “bXA” and “bXV”
denote the representations of MFCC segment and video segment, respectively.
“LRE” and “GRE” are short for Local Representation Extraction and Global
Representation Extraction. The whole estimation process consists of three
steps: (a) the long-term MFCC and video are divided into ﬁxed-size segments;
(b) our constructed MLGI network is used to estimate the BDI-II scores
of the MFCC and video segments; and (c) the average value of scores of
those segments is the judgment of depression severity for the corresponding
individual. The loss function is Root Mean Square Error (RMSE).
fusion. To enhance the representation of depression cues,
Wei et al. [12] used convolutional layers to extract local
features of audio and video modalities, and then achieved
multimodal fusion through concatenation operations. Finally,
they used the attention mechanism to embed the global infor-
mation into the multimodal representation and linear layers to
obtain the prediction result. Likewise, Zhou et al. [13] used
the attention mechanism to embed the global information into
unimodal representations extracted with convolutional layers.
Moreover, they achieved the multimodal fusion through the
concatenation operation and fully connected layers.
As mentioned above, previous works lack the examination
of interaction relationship between local and global repre-
sentations within and across modalities. Hence, the above
approaches are inadequate in terms of achieving complemen-
tary advantages of diﬀerent representations, which aﬀects the
model’s ability to capture depressive cues from audio and
video modalities.
III. OUR MULTIMODAL LOCAL GLOBAL INTERACTION
NETWORK FOR ESTIMATING DEPRESSION SEVERITY
In this paper, our MLGI network is constructed to estimate
an individual’s depression severity through audio and video
modalities. Speciﬁcally, we ﬁrst divide the MFCC extracted
from the long-term speech signal and facial video into MFCC
and video segments with ﬁxed sizes. Then, those MFCC and
video segments are fed into our constructed MLGI network to
obtain estimates of BDI-II scores. Finally, the average of those
estimated scores is regarded as the judgment of depression
severity for the corresponding individual. Fig. 1 shows the
complete ﬂowchart of our method. As can be seen from the
Fig. 1, RI and MP modules are the two main components
of the architecture. Therefore, in the following section, we
present the details of those two modules.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Yanshan University. Downloaded on April 20,2026 at 00:36:17 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
2652
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON CIRCUITS AND SYSTEMS FOR VIDEO TECHNOLOGY, VOL. 36, NO. 2, FEBRUARY 2026
Fig. 2. Local representation extraction process for XA and XV.
Fig. 3. Global representation extraction process for XA and XV.
A. Local and Global Representations Extraction for MFCC
and Video Segments
As mentioned earlier, we examine the interaction between
local and global representations within and across modalities
to enhance the model’s ability to characterize depression cues.
Thus, in this section, we describe the process of extract-
ing local and global representations for audio and video
modalities.
For the audio modality, we extract the MFCC of a long-term
audio and divide it into MFCC segments with ﬁxed length. In
this paper, a MFCC segment is denoted as bXA ∈RDA×bTA,
where DA and bTA refer to the number of frequency bands
and frames, respectively. Next, for balancing the computational
eﬃciency, we use a “Conv2D 1” layer, as shown in Fig. 1, to
merge the adjacent frames of bXA. The corresponding result is
denoted as XA ∈RDA×TA(TA < bTA). Fig. 2 and Fig. 3 show the
extracting process of obtaining local and global representations
for XA. Speciﬁcally, we use Eq. (1) to extract local information
at diﬀerent scales, namely X1
A, X2
A, X3
A. Then, Eq. (2) is used
to aggregate X1
A, X2
A, X3
A to obtain the local representation of
XA. The corresponding result is recorded as XAL. Besides,
as shown in Eq. (3), we use the small kernel convolution
to transform XA to generate KA, QA and VA. Moreover,
Eq. (4) is used to obtain the global representation of XA. The
corresponding result is recorded as XAG.
8
ˆ<
ˆ:
X1
A = δ
 C2
 XA; k1
A

∈RDA×TA×CA
X2
A = δ
 C2
 XA; k2
A

∈RDA×TA×CA
X3
A = δ
 C2
 XA; k3
A

∈RDA×TA×CA
(1)
where C2(X; k) refers to processing X using a 2D convolutional
layer with a kernel size of k. δ(·) is the ReLU activation
function. CA is the number of channels.
XAL = δ(C2(Concat(X1
A, X2
A, X3
A))) ∈RDA×TA,
(2)
where Concat(·, ·, ·) refers to the concatenation operation
along the channel dimension.
8
ˆ<
ˆ:
KA = δ (C2 (XA; kK)) ∈RDA×TA
QA = δ
 C2
 XA; kQ

∈RDA×TA
VA = δ (C2 (XA; kV)) ∈RDA×TA
(3)
XAG = VA · Softmax
(KA)⊤· QA
√DA

∈RDA×TA.
(4)
For the video modality, we divide a long-term video into
short-term video segments. In this paper, each frame in a
video segment is encoded using the pre-trained ResNet50
on the ImageNet dataset. It should be noted that the BDI-
II score estimation is a regression task. Therefore, as in [28],
[29], and [30], we use the Euclidean loss as the objective
function instead of using the Softmax layer with ReLU in the
architecture of ResNet50. Therefore, a video segment can be
encoded into a sequence bXV ∈RbDV×TV, where bDA and TA
refer to the number of dimension and frames, respectively.
Moreover, we use the “Conv2D 2” layer in Fig. 1 to reduce
the dimensionality of bXV and obtain the XV
∈RDV×TV
(DV < bDV). Similarity, we process XV according to the
procedure of extracting local and global representations shown
in Fig. 2 and Fig. 3. The corresponding results are denoted as
XVL ∈RDV×TV and XVG ∈RDV×TV.
B. The Representation Interaction Module
Based on the above steps, we get four representations i.e.
XAL, XAG, XVL and XVG. Therefore, it is necessary to perform
the two-by-two interaction of those four representations to
enhance the model’s ability to characterize depression cues. To
this end, we propose the RI module to achieve element-wise
interaction between two representations through the mutual
linear adjustment. For the sake of brevity, in the process
of describing the RI module, we use X1 ∈RD1×T1 and
X2 ∈RD2×T2 to denote the two representations to be interacted.
Fig. 4 illustrates the ﬂowchart of our proposed RI module.
For the linear adjustment of X1 to X2, we perform a row
transformation on X1 to obtain P2 as shown in Eq. (5).
Next, we perform a column transformation on P2 according
to Eq. (6) to obtain Q2. The bias term b2 of linear adjustment
can then be generated through Eq. (7). Similar to the above
process, the coeﬃcient term w2 ∈RD2×T2 of linear adjustment
can also be produced following Eq. (5)
to Eq. (7). In this
way, we can complete the linear adjustment of X1 to X2 using
Eq. (8). The corresponding result is denoted as bYX1→X2.
P2 = δ(C1(X1)) ∈RD1×T2,
(5)
where C1(·) is the 1-dimensional convolutional layer, δ(·) is
the ReLU activation function.
Q2 = δ(C1(P⊤
2 )) ∈RT2×D2,
(6)
where ⊤refers to matrix transpose.
b2 = NLN(Q⊤
2 ) ∈RD2×T2,
(7)
where NLN(·) is the LayerNormalization layer.
bYX1→X2 = X2 ⊙w2 ⊕b2 ∈RD2×T2,
(8)
Authorized licensed use limited to: Yanshan University. Downloaded on April 20,2026 at 00:36:17 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
NIU et al.: MLGI NETWORKS FOR AUTOMATIC DEPRESSION SEVERITY ESTIMATION
2653
Fig. 4.
Our proposed RI module. “⊕” and “⊙” refer to element-wise addition and element-wise multiplication, respectively. “LN” refers to the Layer-
Normalization layer. “⊎” is deﬁned as Eq. (10).
where “⊙” and “⊕” refer to element-wise multiplication and
element-wise addition, respectively.
Furthermore, to balance the original representation and the
linear adjustment result, we concatenate X2 and bYX1→X2 and
input them into a 2-dimensional convolutional layer to obtain
CX1→X2, as shown in Eq. (9). Next, Eq. (10) is used to
aggregate X2 and bYX1→X2. The corresponding result is denoted
as YX1→X2. Analogous to the linear adjustment of X1 to X2,
we can also complete the linear adjustment of X2 to X1 and
record the corresponding result as YX2→X1 ∈RD1×T1.
CX1→X2 = γ(C2(Concat(bYX1→X2, X2))) ∈RD2×T2×2,
(9)
where Concat(·, ·) refers to concatenating along the channel
dimension. C2(·) is the 2-dimensional convolutional layer. γ(·)
is a Softmax function along the channel dimension.
YX1→X2 = ⊎

CX1→X2, X2, bYX1→X2

≜(C1
X1→X2 ⊙X2) ⊕(C2
X1→X2 ⊙bYX1→X) ∈RD2×T2,
(10)
where C1
X1→X2 (C2
X1→X2) is the ﬁrst (second) channel of
CX1→X2.
After the calculation process of the RI module is deter-
mined, we replace X1 and X2 in Fig. 4 with XAL and
XAG respectively to achieve the interaction between audio
local representation and the audio global representation. The
corresponding results are denoted as YAL→AG ∈RDA×TA and
YAG→AL ∈RDA×TA. Through the pairwise interaction, we can
obtain 12 interaction results. To avoid confusion, Table II lists
all the representations.
From the above process, it is not diﬃcult to see that
the proposed RI module is able to use one representation
to linearly adjust each element of another representation. In
other words, the RI module embodies the interaction between
representations on each elements. Therefore, the RI module
can also be seen as completing the mutual observation between
local and global representations within and across modalities,
which promotes complementary advantages and the capture of
depression cues.
TABLE II
NOTATIONS, DIMENSIONS, AND DESCRIPTIONS FOR DIFFERENT
TYPES OF REPRESENTATIONS
C. The Multi-Representation Prediction Module
As mentioned above, we utilize the RI module to achieve
the interaction between diﬀerent representations and obtain
multiple results in Table II. Therefore, how to aggregate those
representation results to estimate the BDI-II scores becomes
an issue to be considered. For this purpose, we propose the
MP module, whose ﬂowchart is displayed in Fig. 5.
The input of MP module is 16 representations as listed in
Table II. In this paper, we classify those 16 representations into
4 classes: (XAL, YAG→AL, YVL→AL, YVG→AL), (XAG, YAL→AG,
YVL→AG, YVG→AG), (XVL, YAL→VL, YAG→VL, YVG→VL) and
(XVG, YAL→VG, YAG→VG, YVL→VG). It should be noted that
four representations in each class have the same size. Besides,
our proposed MP module mainly utilizes four representations
of each class to estimate the BDI-II score. For simplicity,
we use S1 ∈RDS×TS, S2 ∈RDS×TS, S3 ∈RDS×TS and
S4 ∈RDS×TS instead of the four representations in each class
to describe the main function of the MP module. In this way,
we use Eq. (11) to summarize the temporal changes of each
Authorized licensed use limited to: Yanshan University. Downloaded on April 20,2026 at 00:36:17 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
2654
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON CIRCUITS AND SYSTEMS FOR VIDEO TECHNOLOGY, VOL. 36, NO. 2, FEBRUARY 2026
Fig. 5. Our proposed MP module. “⊗” refers to the matrix multiplication operation. “FC” is an acronym for Fully Connected layer.
dimension of Si (i = 1, 2, 3, 4) to obtain the ri (i = 1, 2, 3, 4).
Moreover, as in Eq. (12), r1, r2, r3 and r4 are concatenated
and aggregated through a one-dimensional convolution layer.
The corresponding result is denoted as r.
ri = δ(C1(Si)) ∈RDS×1, (i = 1, 2, 3, 4).
(11)
r = C1(Concat(r1, r2, r3, r4)) ∈RDS×1,
(12)
where Concat(·, ·, ·, ·) refers to concatenating along the col-
umn dimension.
From the above process, r can be considered as the aggre-
gation result of S1, S2, S3 and S4. Therefore, we use Eq. (13)
to obtain the estimated BDI-II score for each dimension of r.
The result is recorded as rB. It is necessary to point out that
since the range of BDI-II score is 0-63, we use the Sigmoid
function to transform the value of r on each dimension to the
[0, 1] interval and multiply by 63. Next, as shown in Eq. (14),
we fuse the estimated BDI-II scores for each dimension of rB
through the attention mechanism.
rB = 63 × σ(r) ∈RDS×1,
(13)
where σ(·) is the Sigmoid activation function.
s = rB
⊤· Softmax(C1(C1(rB))) ∈R1×1.
(14)
After the calculation process of the MP module is deter-
mined, we replace (S1, S2, S3, S4) with (XAL, YAG→AL,
YVL→AL, YVG→AL) or (XAG, YAL→AG, YVL→AG, YVG→AG)
or (XVL, YAL→VL, YAG→VL, YVG→VL) or (XVG, YAL→VG,
YAG→VG, YVL→VG) to obtain the corresponding scores, denoted
as (sAL, sAG, sVL, sVG). Moreover, a fully connected layer is
used to process the concatenation results of (sAL, sAG, sVL,
sVG) to obtain the estimated BDI-II score for the combination
of a MFCC segment and a video segment.
From the above description, one can observe that the
proposed MP module implements multi-representation vec-
torization and BDI-II score estimation though a hierarchical
manner and the attention mechanism. In addition, each value
of rB can be seen as an estimate of the BDI-II score for
each dimension of the aggregation result of multiple repre-
sentations. Therefore, the MP module can also be seen as the
process of estimating BDI-II scores using decision-level fusion
strategies.
IV. EXPERIMENTS AND ANALYSIS
Our MLGI network will be validated through some experi-
ments on the AVEC 2013 and AVEC 2014 depression datasets.
Therefore, in this section, we ﬁrst brieﬂy describe the collec-
tion process of those two datasets and give the network layer
details in the MLGI network. Then, some ablation experiments
are conducted to demonstrate the eﬀectiveness of our proposed
RI and MP modules. Finally, the comparison with previous
works shows the progressiveness of our method.
A. Dataset Description
In the 2013 and 2014 Audio/Video Emotion Challenge,
Valstar et al. [14], [15] set up a sub track to estimate the
depression severity of an individual through audio and video
modalities, and publicly disclosed the datasets used in the
competition. In the following years, other depression datasets
[31], [32], [33], [34], [35] also are released. However, they
don’t provide the original video data. Therefore, we only
conduct experiments on the AVEC 2013 and AVEC 2014
depression datasets.
As for the AVEC 2013 depression dataset, the 82 partic-
ipants are asked to complete 14 diﬀerent human-computer
interaction tasks. During this process, the subjects sit in front
of a computer and complete the corresponding tasks according
to the instructions on the screen. While those participants
complete the tasks, the microphone and camera are used to
record the audio and video content they produce. Under such
experimental settings, 150 samples are collected from those
82 subjects, with durations ranging from 20 minutes to 50
minutes. And those 150 samples are divided into three equal
parts by the publishers: training, development, and test sets. It
should be noted that the 82 participants are all native German
speakers, with an age range of 18 to 63. In addition, those
participants need to ﬁll out the BDI-II scale before completing
the tasks, and the scale scores are the labels of participants.
As for the AVEC 2014 depression dataset, it comes from
the AVEC 2013 depression dataset. That is to say, the AVEC
2014 dataset has the same audio/video collection settings and
subject conditions as AVEC 2013. Diﬀerently, the AVEC 2014
dataset only include data on participants completing two tasks
(named “Northwind” and “FreeForm”). In each task, there
are 150 samples with a duration ranging from 6 seconds
to 4 minutes. In addition, the publisher evenly divide those
150 samples for each task into three equal parts: training,
development, and test sets. It should be noted that, in our
experiment, we merge the data from two tasks. Therefore, the
merged dataset (still known as AVEC 2014 dataset) has 100
samples for training, development, and test, respectively.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Yanshan University. Downloaded on April 20,2026 at 00:36:17 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
NIU et al.: MLGI NETWORKS FOR AUTOMATIC DEPRESSION SEVERITY ESTIMATION
2655
When the AVEC 2013 and AVEC 2014 datasets are
released, the publishers use Root Mean Square Error (RMSE)
and Mean Absolute Error (MAE) as evaluation metrics for
diﬀerent depression severity estimation algorithms. After-
wards, many researchers also use those two metrics to
illustrate the eﬀectiveness of their methods. In this paper, to
comprehensively evaluate the eﬀectiveness of our proposed
modules, we also use Pearson Correlation Coeﬃcient (PCC)
and Concordance Correlation Coeﬃcient (CCC) in the ablation
experiments. Due to the familiarity of the formulas for RMSE
and MAE, we only provide the formulas for PCC and CCC
in Eqs. (15) and (17).
PCC =
PK
k=1 (yk −µ)
 byk −bµ

qPK
k=1 (yk −µ)2 ·
qPK
k=1
 byk −bµ
,
(15)
where µ and bµ can be calculate via Eq. (16).
(
µ = 1
K
PK
k=1 yk
bµ = 1
K
PK
k=1 byk
,
(16)
where yk and byk (k = 1, 2, · · · , K) are the true and predicted
BDI-II scores. K is the number of samples.
CCC =
2 · PCC · η ·bη
η2 +bη2 +
 µ −bµ
2 ,
(17)
where η and bη can be calculate via Eq. (18).
8
ˆˆˆˆˆˆ<
ˆˆˆˆˆˆ:
η =
v
u
u
t 1
K
K
X
k=1
(yk −µ)2
bη =
v
u
u
t 1
K
K
X
k=1
(byk −bµ)2
(18)
B. Preprocessing and Model Settings
1) Data Preprocessing: As mentioned earlier, this paper
uses audio and video data to estimate the depression severity
of participants. During the data preprocessing process, we
resample the audio of the AVEC 2013 and AVEC 2014
depression datasets using a frequency of 8KHZ. Furthermore,
as shown in the experimental results of [29] and [30], the
best accuracy is achieved when the sampling rate is 6fps.
Therefore, we adjust the video frame rate of the samples
in the AVEC 2013 and AVEC 2014 datasets from 30fps to
6fps using Format Factory software. In this way, the audio
of each sample is ﬁrst extracted and its corresponding MFCC
are obtained. Meanwhile, the mean and standard deviation of
each dimension of MFCC are calculated, denoted as µM and
ηM. Then, a window with 3 seconds is used to divide a long-
term video into short-term video segments with 18 frames.
Note that the repetition rate of adjacent two video segments is
50%. Moreover, each frame in the video segment is adjusted
to 224 × 224 pixels and input into the trained ResNet50 to
obtain the encoding result of the frame. Therefore, a video
segment with 18 frames (3 seconds) can be encoded into a
representation bXV ∈R2048×18. In addition, we extract the audio
from each video segment to obtain the corresponding MFCC,
which is normalized using µM and ηM. Therefore, the MFCC
of an audio segment is obtained, i.e. bXA ∈R39×517.
TABLE III
NETWORK LAYER PARAMETER SETTINGS IN OUR PROPOSED MODULES.
“NF” AND “KS” ARE ABBREVIATIONS FOR NUMBER OF FILTERS AND
KERNEL SIZE, RESPECTIVELY. THERE ARE TWO SIZES FOR ALL
REPRESENTATIONS TO BE INTERACTED WITH, SO THERE ARE
TWO PARAMETER SETTINGS FOR THE CONV1D
LAYERS IN THE RI MODULE
2) The Architecture of MLGI Network: In this paper, we
construct the MLGI network to estimate the depression sever-
ity of an individual through audio and video modalities. In
the constructed MLGI network, RI and MP modules are the
two main components. Fig. 1 shows the architecture of our
MLGI network. Fig. 4 and Fig. 5 show the structure of RI and
MP modules. Table III provides the parameter settings for the
corresponding network layers. Note that the RI module needs
to be repeated 3 times.
The RMSE is used as the loss function when training our
MLGI network. In this paper, we use the Keras deep learning
framework to implement model training. And Adam is used
as the optimizer with default momentum values of β1 = 0.9
and β2 = 0.999. The weight decay is set as 0.0001, and the
learning rate is initialized to 0.00015.
C. Ablation Experiments and Analysis
As mentioned earlier, we construct the MLGI network to
estimate the depression severity of an individual. In our model,
RI and MP modules are proposed. Thus, in this section,
we illustrate the eﬀectiveness of components involved in our
method through some ablation experiments.
1) Eﬀectiveness of RI Module: To enable the interaction of
local and global representations, we propose the RI module. In
this subsection, some ablation experiments are done to show
that the RI module is eﬀective for enhancing the model’s
ability to characterize depressive cues. Table IV presents
corresponding metric results.
As can be seen from the results in Table IV, for the single
modality situation, XAL has better experimental performance
Authorized licensed use limited to: Yanshan University. Downloaded on April 20,2026 at 00:36:17 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
2656
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON CIRCUITS AND SYSTEMS FOR VIDEO TECHNOLOGY, VOL. 36, NO. 2, FEBRUARY 2026
TABLE IV
THE METRIC RESULTS OF BDI-II SCORE ESTIMATION USING DIFFERENT REPRESENTATIONS ON THE AVEC 2013 AND AVEC 2014 DEVELOPMENT
SETS. “1” REFERS TO THE REPRESENTATION IN TABLE II WITH AN INDEX VALUE OF 1, I.E., XAL. THE OTHER NUMBERS IN THE FIRST COLUMN
HAVE THE SIMILAR MEANINGS. “1-16” REFERS TO THE REPRESENTATIONS IN TABLE II WITH INDEX VALUES FROM 1 TO 16
compared to XAG. This result indicates that the diﬀerences in
audio modality among individuals with diﬀerent depression
levels are more reﬂected in the local change of frequency
bands. Interestingly, for the video modality, there are similar
situations as well. Moreover, it can be seen that YAL→AG
(YVL→VG) has better prediction accuracy than XAG (XVG).
This is because XAL (XVL) has a stronger ability than XAG
(XVG) to characterize depression cues. Therefore, the linear
adjustment of XAL to XAG brings about the improvement in
prediction accuracy. The similar explanation can also be used
for the comparison of YVL→VG and XVG. In addition, YAG→AL
(YVG→VL) has better metric values than XAL (XVL). The reason
is that our proposed RI module integrates bYAG→AL and XAL
(bYVG→VL and XVL) using Eq. (10). In other words, YAG→AL
(YVG→VL) is the result of the complementary advantages of
bYAG→AL and XAL (bYVG→VL and XVL), which leads to the
improvement in terms of metrics. Of course, it can be inferred
that (XAL, XAG) has better prediction accuracy compared to
XAL or XAG, indicating that the combination of local and
global representations of audio is eﬀective in helping the
model capture the information related to depression. The fact
that (XAL, XAG, YAG→AL, YAL→AG) can further improve the
experimental performance indicates that the mutual linear
adjustment between local and global representations is nec-
essary for the task of estimating the severity of depression.
Similar analysis also can be applies to the video modality.
For the multimodal situation, we ﬁnd that YAL→VL has
better experimental performance compared to XVL. In the
processing of generating YAL→VL, on the one hand, we achieve
the element-wise adjustment of audio to video (i.e., bYAL→VL)
through the linear transformation of XAL to XVL. On the other
hand, the RI module uses the attention mechanism as shown
in Eq. (10) to highlight the useful elements in the bYAL→VL
and XVL. That is to say, YAL→VL obtains eﬀective information
compensation across modalities. In addition, the prediction
of YAG→VL is not as good as that of YAL→VL, mainly due
to the inferior performance of XAG in estimating individual
BDI-II scores compared to XAL. Similar explanations can
also be applied to the comparison of YAG→VG and YAG→VL.
Moreover, (XAL, XAG, XVL, XVG) achieves good experimental
performance. This result is indicates that the fusion of local
and global representations of audio and video modalities is
feasible in estimating the depression severity of an individ-
ual. As expected, the metrics have been further improved
by combining local and global interaction representations of
diﬀerent modalities. This fact also indicates that the interaction
results obtained using our proposed RI module is beneﬁcial for
helping the model capture depressive cues.
In order to show that the RI module can better realize the
interaction between diﬀerent representations than the attention
mechanism, we use cross attention instead of the RI module
to conduct ablation experiments. It should be noted that the
similar representations with indexes of 5 to 16 in Table II
can also be obtained through the cross attention. In order to
show that the RI module can better realize the interaction
between diﬀerent representations than MLPs, we directly
concatenate diﬀerent representations and use fully connected
layers to predict BDI-II scores. The corresponding experimen-
tal results are shown in Table V. Obviously, the RI module has
the best experimental performance in both single mode and
Authorized licensed use limited to: Yanshan University. Downloaded on April 20,2026 at 00:36:17 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
NIU et al.: MLGI NETWORKS FOR AUTOMATIC DEPRESSION SEVERITY ESTIMATION
2657
TABLE V
THE METRIC RESULTS OF BDI-II SCORE ESTIMATION USING DIFFERENT MODULES ON THE AVEC 2013 AND AVEC 2014 DEVELOPMENT SETS. FOR
“RI” PART, “1” REFERS TO THE REPRESENTATION IN TABLE II WITH AN INDEX VALUE OF 1, I.E., XAL. THE OTHER NUMBERS IN THE FIRST
COLUMN HAVE THE SIMILAR MEANINGS. “1-16” REFERS TO THE REPRESENTATIONS IN TABLE II WITH INDEX VALUES FROM 1 TO 16.
FOR “CROSS ATTENTION” PART, REPRESENTATIONS OTHER THAN 1-4 CAN BE OBTAINED BY USING THE CROSS
ATTENTION MECHANISM INSTEAD OF THE RI MODULE. “RI (G)” REFERS TO THE USE OF GATING
MECHANISMS RATHER THAN LINEAR ADJUSTMENT IN THE RI MODULE
multi-mode cases. This is because the RI module can realize
element by element interaction of diﬀerent representations,
while the attention mechanism and MLPs aggregate tokens
(not elements) in a linear way, which is not enough to
make interaction suﬃcient. Similarly, the cross attention is
also diﬃcult to achieve element-wise interaction between two
representations, which results in its experimental performance
being inferior to our proposed RI module. Furthermore, to
verify the eﬀectiveness of linear adjustment, we conduct exper-
iments using a gating mechanism as an interaction manner.
By comparison, we can ﬁnd that the gating mechanism is
weaker than the linear adjustment. This is because the gating
mechanism only stimulates or suppresses elements, and is not
as ﬂexible as linear adjustment.
To demonstrate the eﬀectiveness of RI module, we give the
visual presentation of XAL, XAG and their interaction results
in Fig. 6. It should be noted that we only present the visual
results of the audio modality here. The video modality is also
similar. For Fig. 6, the ﬁrst (second) row refers to the audio
local (global) representation sequences i.e., XAL (XAG) for four
individuals with diﬀerent depression levels using the module
shown in Fig. 2 (Fig. 3). The third (fourth) row refers to
the visual display of YAL→AG (YAG→AL) obtained through the
linear adjustment of XAL (XAG) to XAG (XAL). By comparing
the second and third rows (or the ﬁrst and fourth rows) of
Fig. 6, we can ﬁnd that the linear adjustment can enhance
discriminative ability. As shown in the third row of Fig. 6, the
deeper the level of depression, the more yellow areas there
are. Similar phenomena is diﬃcult to observe in the second
row of Fig. 6. This result further indicates that our proposed
RI module can improve the model’s discriminative ability
and enhance the performance of depression level prediction
through mutual linear adjustment.
On the contrary, for individuals with high BDI-II scores,
there are more yellow parts in YAL→AG than in XAG. The
reason for this situation is that the linear adjustment of XAL
to XAG can transform the elements of XAG into a more
discriminative space. This can also be interpreted to mean
that observing XAG from the perspective of XAL not only
enhances the XAG’s ability to characterize depressive cues
but also achieve the supplementation of XAL to XAG. While,
from a visual presentation, YAG→AL has weaker discriminative
power than YAL→AG. The explanation for this result is that
XAG is weaker XAL in capturing depressive cues, so the
linear adjustment of XAG to XAL is not as eﬀective as the
linear adjustment of XAL to XAG. The linear adjustment across
modalities also has a similar eﬀect. Thus, for the sake of
simplicity, we do not repeat the presentation.
2) Eﬀectiveness of MP Module: As shown in Fig. 5, our
proposed MP module implements multi-representation vec-
torization in a hierarchical manner that summarizes single
representation along time direction and aggregates multiple
representations (as shown in Eq. (11) - Eq. (12)), and then
adopts the attention mechanism to estimate the BDI-II score.
Therefore, on the one hand, we investigate the impact of
summarizing representations on the accuracy of BDI-II score
prediction in two other scenarios: (1) summarize the represen-
tation ﬁrst along time and then along dimension as shown
in Fig. 7 (a); (2) summarize the representation along the
dimension direction as shown in Fig. 7 (b). Fig. 7 (a) (Fig. 7
(b)) can be formulated as Eq. (19) - Eq. (20) (Eq. (21) -
Eq. (22)). On the other hand, we also examine the necessity
of the attention mechanism in the BDI-II score estimation
process. The corresponding results are listed in Table VI.
si = C1
 (C1 (Si))⊤
∈R1×1, i = 1, 2, 3, 4.
(19)
s = Concat(s1, s2, s3, s4) ∈R4×1.
(20)
si = C1
 S⊤
i

∈RTS×1, i = 1, 2, 3, 4.
(21)
s = C1(Concat(s1, s2, s3, s4)) ∈RTS×1.
(22)
From the Table VI, we can see that Fig. 7 (a) has the
worst metric results. This is because the process shown in
Fig. 7 (a) summarizes each representation into one element
and uses linear layers to mix those elements to obtain the
estimated BDI-II score. Therefore, the prediction method
shown in Fig. 7 (a) cannot explore the relationship between
Authorized licensed use limited to: Yanshan University. Downloaded on April 20,2026 at 00:36:17 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
2658
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON CIRCUITS AND SYSTEMS FOR VIDEO TECHNOLOGY, VOL. 36, NO. 2, FEBRUARY 2026
Fig. 6. Visual presentation of XAL, XAG, YAL→AG, YAG→AL for individuals with diﬀerent depression levels. “320 2 8” refers to the BDI-II score of 8 for
subjects 320 2. “317 3 17”, “306 2 22” and “234 1 31” also have the same meaning.
TABLE VI
THE METRIC RESULTS OF BDI-II SCORE ESTIMATION USING DIFFERENT MULTI-REPRESENTATION PREDICTION
METHODS ON THE AVEC 2013 AND AVEC 2014 DEVELOPMENT SETS
frames or dimensions across multiple representations, which
aﬀects the experimental performance. Unlike this, Fig. 7 (b)
ﬁrst summarizes the frames of each representation along
time direction and adopts a linear layer to obtain the frame
mixing results across diﬀerent representations, which is used
to estimate the individual’s BDI-II score. Therefore, Fig. 7 (b)
improve the prediction accuracy. Our proposed MP module as
shown in Fig. 5 achieves the best metric results. The diﬀerence
between Fig. 5 and Fig. 7 (b) is that Fig. 5 summarizes
the representations along the dimension direction. This result
also indicates that it is more helpful to examine the temporal
changes of each dimension for estimating the depression
severity of an individual.
Furthermore, it is not diﬃcult to observe that all metrics are
improved when the attention mechanism is adopted. This is
mainly because the attention mechanism is able to emphasize
the useful information while suppressing irrelevant informa-
tion. In fact, the method shown in Fig. 7 (a) is not conductive
Authorized licensed use limited to: Yanshan University. Downloaded on April 20,2026 at 00:36:17 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
NIU et al.: MLGI NETWORKS FOR AUTOMATIC DEPRESSION SEVERITY ESTIMATION
2659
TABLE VII
THE METRIC RESULTS OF BDI-II SCORE ESTIMATION REGARDING WHETHER TO USE THE COMBINATION OF RI AND MP MODULES ON THE AVEC
2013 AND AVEC 2014 DEVELOPMENT SET. %REFERS TO CONCATENATING LOCAL AND GLOBAL REPRESENTATIONS OF DIFFERENT MODALITIES
AND INPUTTING THEM INTO A FULLY CONNECTED LAYER TO ESTIMATE BDI-II SCORES. ✓REFERS TO INPUTTING LOCAL AND GLOBAL
REPRESENTATION SEQUENCES OF DIFFERENT MODALITIES INTO OUR MODEL TO ESTIMATE BDI-II SCORES
Fig. 7. Two multi-representation prediction methods.
to the attention mechanism emphasizing eﬀective information
at the frame or dimension level. From the comparison between
Fig. 7 (b) and Fig. 5, we can understand that the attention
mechanism can be more eﬀectively implemented at the dimen-
sion level compared to the frame level.
3) The Experimental Performance of Combination of RI and
MP Modules: In this section, we examine the eﬀectiveness of
the combination of RI and MP (i.e. our overall model) for the
task of estimating depression levels. The corresponding exper-
iments are shown in Table VII. From the metric results shown
in the Table VII, it can be seen that the combination of RI and
MP modules can achieve better experimental performance in
both single modal and multimodal scenarios. This indicates
that the combination of RI and MP modules is eﬀective in
improving the accuracy of depression level prediction. On the
other hand, it also indicates that the combination of RI and
MP modules can achieve complementary advantages.
D. Signiﬁcance Analysis of RI and MP Modules
From the indicator values listed in Tables IV and VI, we
can see that RI and MP modules are eﬀective in improving
the accuracy of BDI-II score estimation. To illustrate the
signiﬁcance of those improvements, in this section, we perform
the Friedman test for the indicator values in Tables IV and VI.
The corresponding results are displayed in Table VIII.
As shown in Table VIII, for the RI module, the p-values
of the four indicators (i.e. RMSE, MAE, PCC, CCC) are
all less than 0.01. That is to say, we can set the parameter
TABLE VIII
p-VALUES OF FRIEDMAN TEST FOR RI AND MP MODULES
ON DIFFERENT METRICS
α in the Friedman test to 0.01, indicating that the RI module
signiﬁcantly improves the accuracy of BDI-II score estimation
at a 99% conﬁdence level. Similarly, for the MP module, the
p-values of all four indicators are less than 0.1, indicating
that the accuracy improvement of BDI-II score estimation by
the MP module is reliable at a 90% conﬁdence level. It is
necessary to point out that the 90% conﬁdence level, although
not very signiﬁcant, can still reﬂect the eﬀectiveness of the
MP module to a certain extent in statistical signiﬁcance. It
is necessary to explain that the p-values of the MP module
regarding the MAE, PCC, CCC metrics are the same. The
reason for this result is that the ordering of the indicator values
for those modules shown in Fig. 7 (a), Fig. 7 (b) and Fig. 5 is
the same for the AVEC 2013 and AVEC 2014 datasets. With
the above discussion, we can see that our proposed RI and
MP modules are statistically eﬀective on the task of estimating
individual depression severity.
Furthermore, we also draw the Q-Q plots in Fig. 8 to illus-
trate the regression performance of the RI and MP modules. By
comparing Fig. 8 (a) and Fig. 8 (c) (Fig. 8 (a) and Fig. 8 (d)),
it is not diﬃcult to see that the interaction within and across
modalities achieved by the RI module is eﬀective in promoting
the estimated BDI-II scores closer to the true values. Similarly,
comparing Fig. 8 (h) with Fig. 8 (e), Fig. 8 (f), Fig. 8 (g), we
can observe that the MP module does signiﬁcantly reduce the
diﬀerence between estimated and true BDI-II scores.
E. Analysis of Depression Categories
As shown in Table I, the BDI-II score can be used to
identify depression categories. Therefore, in this section, we
examine the recognition eﬀect of RI and MP modules on
Authorized licensed use limited to: Yanshan University. Downloaded on April 20,2026 at 00:36:17 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
2660
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON CIRCUITS AND SYSTEMS FOR VIDEO TECHNOLOGY, VOL. 36, NO. 2, FEBRUARY 2026
Fig. 8. Q-Q plots of diﬀerent representations or modules on the AVEC 2013 development set.
TABLE IX
EXPERIMENTAL PERFORMANCE OF DIFFERENT MODELS FOR DEPRESSION SEVERITY CATEGORY ON THE AVEC 2013 AND AVEC 2014
DEVELOPMENT SETS. BOLDED NUMBERS ARE THE BEST RESULTS AND NUMBERS WITH UNDERLINING ARE
THE SECOND BEST RESULTS. “(1)–(16)+MP” IS OUR MLGI NETWORK
depression categories. It is necessary to point out that we
conduct two-category and four-category experiments. The two-
category experiment refers to making individuals with BDI-II
score of 0-13 as “None” (labeled as 0) and the remaining
individuals as “Depression” (labeled as 1). The four-category
experiment refers to dividing individuals into “None” (labeled
as 0), “Mild” (labeled as 1), “Moderate” (labeled as 2), and
“Severe” (labeled as 3) according to the division of BDI-II
scores shown in Table I. The indicator results for depression
category identiﬁcation are displayed in Table IX. Overall,
“(1)–(16)+MP” achieves the best experimental performance.
This fact indicates that our proposed RI and MP modules are
also eﬀective in identifying individual depression categories.
F. Comparison With Previous Studies
To illustrate the progressiveness of our method, in this
section, we compare previous works on AVEC 2013 and
AVEC 2014 test sets. Tables X and XI present the experimental
performance of diﬀerent methods for predicting BDI-II scores.
As shown in Tables X and XI, our MLGI network
doesn’t perform better than previous works on single modal-
ity. This is because our method focuses on examining
the eﬀects of local and global representations of audio
(video) and the interactions between them on depression
severity. While, those methods [7], [8], [37], [41], [42],
[51], [53], [59] with good experimental performance mainly
extract the diﬀerences among individuals with diﬀerent
depression levels from the perspective of spatial-temporal or
time-dimension.
Interestingly, our method has the competitive experimen-
tal performance on the multimodality situation. This can
be explained by the fact that our proposed RI module
can fully explore the interaction between local and global
representations within and across modalities to enhance the
Authorized licensed use limited to: Yanshan University. Downloaded on April 20,2026 at 00:36:17 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
NIU et al.: MLGI NETWORKS FOR AUTOMATIC DEPRESSION SEVERITY ESTIMATION
2661
TABLE X
EXPERIMENTAL PERFORMANCE OF DIFFERENT METHODS ON THE AVEC
2013 TEST SET. BOLDED NUMBERS ARE THE BEST RESULTS
model’s ability to characterize depressive cues. Meanwhile,
our proposed MP module can integrate prediction results from
multiple representations to improve the estimation of BDI-II
scores. On the contrary, previous works [7], [9], [10], [11],
[68] mainly focus on obtaining multimodal depression cue
representations through unimodal feature concatenation or
the attention mechanism, without examining the element-
wise interaction between representations, which aﬀects the
experimental performance. Although we don’t gain a smaller
RMSE value on the AVEC 2014 dataset than provided by
[45], our method has advantages in terms of parameter
(1.09M) and computation (94.19M) complexity compared
TABLE XI
EXPERIMENTAL PERFORMANCE OF DIFFERENT METHODS ON THE AVEC
2014 TEST SET. BOLDED NUMBERS ARE THE BEST RESULTS
to the corresponding parameter (1.33M) and computation
(1234.79M) complexity shown in [45].
Moreover, we also draw a comparison plot between true
and the estimated values obtained using our MLGI network
in Fig. 9. From this ﬁgure, we can observe that our method
can provide good estimation values for relatively large BDI-II
scores, while it is weak for smaller BDI-II scores, especially
0. This may be because our MLGI network has diﬃculty in
producing small values or exactly 0 during the calculation
process. In contrast, our MLGI network prefers to produce
relatively large values through addition and multiplication
operations between input representations and network weights.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Yanshan University. Downloaded on April 20,2026 at 00:36:17 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
2662
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON CIRCUITS AND SYSTEMS FOR VIDEO TECHNOLOGY, VOL. 36, NO. 2, FEBRUARY 2026
Fig. 9. True and estimated values of BDI-II on AVEC 2013 and AVEC 2014
test sets. The green and red dots represent the true and estimated BDI-II
scores, respectively. The blue vertical line represents the error.
V. CONCLUSION
Physiological and psychological studies demonstrate dif-
ferences between healthy and depressed individuals in audio
and video modalities. Based on this fact, we construct an
MLGI network to estimate an individual’s depression severity.
In our constructed MLGI network, we propose two novel
modules: RI and MP modules. The RI module is able to
achieve the element-wise interaction between local and global
representations within and across modalities through the linear
adjustment. The MP module ﬁrst summarizes a single rep-
resentation along the time direction, then aggregates those
summary results to implement the vectorization of multi-
representations, and ﬁnally obtains the estimation result of
BDI-II score through the attention mechanism. Experiments
on the AVEC 2013 and AVEC 2014 datasets illustrate the
eﬀectiveness of our MLGI network on the task of estimating
individual depression severity. Meanwhile, the experimental
results in this paper also show that examining the inter-
action between local and global representations within and
cross modalities is beneﬁcial for improving the accuracy of
estimating BDI-II scores. In the future, we will considering
embedding spatiotemporal information of data in the process
of extracting local and global representations, and trans-
forming sample labels to reduce the diﬃculty of estimating
small BDI-II scores for further improving the experimental
performance. Furthermore, in this paper, we use facial images
to predict an individual’s depression level, which carries the
risk of privacy breaches. Therefore, we will consider how to
achieve depression assessment while ensuring that individual
privacy is not compromised.
REFERENCES
[1]
C. Otte et al., “Major depressive disorder,” Nature Rev. Disease primers,
vol. 2, no. 1, pp. 1–20, 2016.
[2]
A. Thapar, O. Eyre, V. Patel, and D. A. Brent, “Depression in young
people,” Lancet, vol. 400, no. 10352, pp. 617–631, 2022.
[3]
S. Koops, S. G. Brederoo, J. N. de Boer, F. G. Nadema, A. E. Voppel,
and I. E. Sommer, “Speech as a biomarker for depression,” CNS Neurol.
Disorders-Drug Targets, vol. 22, no. 2, pp. 152–160, Feb. 2023.
[4]
L. Hansen, Y.-P. Zhang, D. Wolf, K. Sechidis, N. Ladegaard, and
R. Fusaroli, “A generalizable speech emotion recognition model reveals
depression and remission,” Acta Psychiatrica Scandinavica, vol. 145,
no. 2, pp. 186–199, Feb. 2022.
[5]
L. I. Reed, M. A. Sayette, and J. F. Cohn, “Impact of depression on
response to comedy: A dynamic facial coding analysis,” J. Abnormal
Psychol., vol. 116, no. 4, pp. 804–809, Nov. 2007.
[6]
R. C. Gur, R. J. Erwin, R. E. Gur, A. S. Zwil, C. Heimberg, and
H. C. Kraemer, “Facial emotion discrimination: II. behavioral ﬁndings
in depression,” Psychiatry Res., vol. 42, no. 3, pp. 241–251, Jun. 1992.
[7]
M. A. Uddin, J. B. Joolee, and K.-A. Sohn, “Deep multi-modal network
based automated depression severity estimation,” IEEE Trans. Aﬀect.
Comput., vol. 14, no. 3, pp. 2153–2167, Jul. 2023.
[8]
Y. Pan, Y. Shang, Z. Shao, T. Liu, G. Guo, and H. Ding, “Integrating
deep facial priors into landmarks for privacy preserving multimodal
depression recognition,” IEEE Trans. Aﬀect. Comput., vol. 15, no. 3,
pp. 828–836, Jul. 2024.
[9]
M. Niu, J. Tao, B. Liu, J. Huang, and Z. Lian, “Multimodal spatiotempo-
ral representation for automatic depression level detection,” IEEE Trans.
Aﬀect. Comput., vol. 14, no. 1, pp. 294–307, Jan. 2023.
[10] Y. Li et al., “An automatic depression detection method with cross-
modal fusion network and multi-head attention mechanism,” in Proc.
Chin. Conf. Pattern Recognit. Comput. Vis. (PRCV), 2023, pp. 252–264.
[11] H. Fan et al., “Transformer-based multimodal feature enhancement
networks for multimodal depression detection integrating video,” Inf.
Fusion, vol. 104, Jun. 2024, Art. no. 102161.
[12] P.-C. Wei, K. Peng, A. Roitberg, K. Yang, J. Zhang, and R. Stiefelhagen,
“Multi-modal depression estimation based on sub-attentional fusion,” in
Proc. Eur. Conf. Comput. Vis., 2022, pp. 623–639.
[13] L. Zhou, Z. Liu, Z. Shangguan, X. Yuan, Y. Li, and B. Hu,
“TAMFN: Time-aware attention multimodal fusion network for depres-
sion detection,” IEEE Trans. Neural Syst. Rehabil. Eng., vol. 31,
pp. 669–679, 2023.
[14] M. Valstar et al., “AVEC 2013: The continuous audio/visual emotion
and depression recognition challenge,” in Proc. 3rd ACM Int. Workshop
Audio/visual Emotion Challenge, Oct. 2013, pp. 3–10.
[15] M. Valstar et al., “AVEC 2014: 3D dimensional aﬀect and depression
recognition challenge,” in Proc. 4th Int. Workshop Audio/Visual Emotion
Challenge, Nov. 2014, pp. 3–10.
[16] W. Zhang, L. Li, Y. Ding, W. Chen, Z. Deng, and X. Yu, “Detecting
facial action units from global–local ﬁne-grained expressions,” IEEE
Trans. Circuits Syst. Video Technol., vol. 34, no. 2, pp. 983–994,
Feb. 2024.
[17] Z.
Chen,
L.
Wang,
P.
Wang,
and
P.
Gao,
“Question-aware
global–local video understanding network for audio-visual question
answering,” IEEE Trans. Circuits Syst. Video Technol., vol. 34, no. 5,
pp. 4109–4119, May 2024.
[18] Y. Ou, Z. Chen, and F. Wu, “Multimodal local–global attention network
for aﬀective video content analysis,” IEEE Trans. Circuits Syst. Video
Technol., vol. 31, no. 5, pp. 1901–1914, May 2021.
[19] J. Yuan, A. Zhu, Q. Xu, K. Wattanachote, and Y. Gong, “CTIF-
Net: A CNN-transformer iterative fusion network for salient object
detection,” IEEE Trans. Circuits Syst. Video Technol., vol. 34, no. 5,
pp. 3795–3805, May 2024.
[20] Z. Feng, Z. Zeng, C. Guo, and Z. Li, “Temporal multimodal graph
transformer with global-local alignment for video-text retrieval,” IEEE
Trans. Circuits Syst. Video Technol., vol. 33, no. 3, pp. 1438–1453,
Mar. 2023.
[21] A. Gulati et al., “Conformer: Convolution-augmented transformer for
speech recognition,” in Proc. Interspeech, Oct. 2020, pp. 5036–5040.
[22] Z. Peng et al., “Conformer: Local features coupling global representa-
tions for recognition and detection,” IEEE Trans. Pattern Anal. Mach.
Intell., vol. 45, no. 8, pp. 9454–9468, Aug. 2023.
[23] Z. Dai et al., “CoAtNet: Marrying convolution and attention for all data
sizes,” in Proc. Conf. Neural Inf. Process. Syst., 2021, pp. 3965–3977.
[24] K. Li et al., “UniFormer: Unifying convolution and self-attention for
visual recognition,” IEEE Trans. Pattern Anal. Mach. Intell., vol. 45,
no. 10, pp. 12581–12600, Oct. 2023.
[25] J. Guo et al., “CMT: Convolutional neural networks meet vision
transformers,” in Proc. IEEE/CVF Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit.
(CVPR), Jun. 2022, pp. 12175–12185.
[26] H. Wu et al., “CvT: Introducing convolutions to vision transformers,” in
Proc. IEEE/CVF Int. Conf. Comput. Vis. (ICCV), Oct. 2021, pp. 22–31.
[27] A. Chordia, M. Kale, M. Mayee, P. Yadav, and S. Itkar, “Automatic
depression level analysis using audiovisual modality,” in Smart Comput.
Techn. Applications: Proc. 4th Int. Conf. Smart Comput. Informat., 2021,
pp. 425–439.
[28] M. Niu, Z. Zhao, J. Tao, Y. Li, and B. W. Schuller, “Dual atten-
tion and element recalibration networks for automatic depression level
prediction,” IEEE Trans. Aﬀect. Comput., vol. 14, no. 3, pp. 1954–1965,
Jul. 2023.
[29] M. Al Jazaery and G. Guo, “Video-based depression level analysis by
encoding deep spatiotemporal features,” IEEE Trans. Aﬀect. Comput.,
vol. 12, no. 1, pp. 262–268, Jan. 2021.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Yanshan University. Downloaded on April 20,2026 at 00:36:17 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
NIU et al.: MLGI NETWORKS FOR AUTOMATIC DEPRESSION SEVERITY ESTIMATION
2663
[30] M. A. Uddin, J. B. Joolee, and Y.-K. Lee, “Depression level prediction
using deep spatiotemporal features and multilayer Bi-LTSM,” IEEE
Trans. Aﬀect. Comput., vol. 13, no. 2, pp. 864–870, Apr. 2022.
[31] J. Gratch et al., “The distress analysis interview corpus of human and
computer interviews,” in Proc. LREC, 2014, pp. 3123–3128.
[32] D. DeVault et al., “SimSensei kiosk: A virtual human interviewer for
healthcare decision support,” in Proc. Int. Conf. Auto. Agents Multi-agent
Syst., 2014, pp. 1061–1068.
[33] M. Valstar, “AVEC 2016: Depression,” in Proc. 6th Int. Workshop
Audio/Visual Emotion Challenge, 2016, pp. 3–10.
[34] F. Ringeval et al., “AVEC 2019 workshop and challenge: State-of-
mind,” in Proc. 9th Int. Audio/Visual Emotion Challenge Workshop,
2019, pp. 3–12.
[35] H. Cai et al., “MODMA dataset: A multi-modal open dataset for mental-
disorder analysis,” 2020, arXiv:2002.09283.
[36] L. He and C. Cao, “Automated depression analysis using convolu-
tional neural networks from speech,” J. Biomed. Informat., vol. 83,
pp. 103–111, Jul. 2018.
[37] M. Niu, B. Liu, J. Tao, and Q. Li, “A time-frequency channel attention
and vectorization network for automatic depression level prediction,”
Neurocomputing, vol. 450, pp. 208–218, Aug. 2021.
[38] C. Cai, M. Niu, B. Liu, J. Tao, and X. Liu, “TDCA-Net: Time-
domain channel attention network for depression detection,” in Proc.
Interspeech, Aug. 2021, pp. 2511–2515.
[39] C. Fan, Z. Lv, S. Pei, and M. Niu, “CSENET: Complex squeeze-and-
excitation network for speech depression level prediction,” in Proc.
IEEE Int. Conf. Acoust., Speech Signal Process. (ICASSP), May 2022,
pp. 546–550.
[40] Y. Li, M. Niu, Z. Zhao, and J. Tao, “Automatic depression level
assessment from speech by long-term global information embedding,”
in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Acoust., Speech Signal Process. (ICASSP),
May 2022, pp. 8507–8511.
[41] Q. Li, D. Wang, Y. Ren, Y. Gao, and Y. Li, “FTA-Net: A frequency
and time attention network for speech depression detection,” in Proc.
INTERSPEECH, Aug. 2023, pp. 1723–1727.
[42] M. Niu, J. Tao, Y. Li, Y. Qin, and Y. Li, “WavDepressionNet: Automatic
depression level prediction via raw speech signals,” IEEE Trans. Aﬀect.
Comput., vol. 15, no. 1, pp. 285–296, Jan. 2024.
[43] S. Li, Z. Xie, and S. M. Naqvi, “Eﬃcient long speech sequence
modelling for time-domain depression level estimation,” in Proc. IEEE
Int. Conf. Acoust., Speech Signal Process. (ICASSP), Apr. 2025, pp. 1–5.
[44] M. Niu, J. Tao, Y. He, S. Zhang, and M. Li, “Examining the Fourier
spectrum of speech signal from a time-frequency perspective for auto-
matic depression level prediction,” IEEE Trans. Aﬀect. Comput., early
access, Apr. 29, 2025, doi: 10.1109/TAFFC.2025.3565654.
[45] M. Niu, X. Wang, J. Gong, B. Liu, J. Tao, and B. W. Schuller,
“Depression scale dictionary decomposition framework for multimodal
automatic depression level prediction,” IEEE Trans. Circuits Syst. Video
Technol., vol. 35, no. 6, pp. 6195–6210, Jun. 2025.
[46] Y. Wang, Z. Lin, Y. Teng, Y. Cheng, H. Jiang, and Y. Yang, “SIMMA:
Multimodal automatic depression detection via spatiotemporal ensemble
and cross-modal alignment,” IEEE Trans. Computat. Social Syst., early
access, Mar. 19, 2025, doi: 10.1109/TCSS.2025.3542986.
[47] S. Song, S. Jaiswal, L. Shen, and M. Valstar, “Spectral representation
of behaviour primitives for depression analysis,” IEEE Trans. Aﬀect.
Comput., vol. 13, no. 2, pp. 829–844, Apr. 2022.
[48] M. Niu, Z. Zhao, J. Tao, Y. Li, and B. W. Schuller, “Selective element
and two orders vectorization networks for automatic depression severity
diagnosis via facial changes,” IEEE Trans. Circuits Syst. Video Technol.,
vol. 32, no. 11, pp. 8065–8077, Nov. 2022.
[49] Y. Shang et al., “LQGDNet: A local quaternion and global deep network
for facial depression recognition,” IEEE Trans. Aﬀect. Comput., vol. 14,
no. 3, pp. 2557–2563, Jul. 2023.
[50] W. C. de Melo, E. Granger, and M. B. L´opez, “MDN: A deep
maximization-diﬀerentiation network for spatio-temporal depression
detection,” IEEE Trans. Aﬀect. Comput., vol. 14, no. 1, pp. 578–590,
Jan. 2023.
[51] Y. Pan et al., “Spatial–temporal attention network for depression recog-
nition from facial videos,” Expert Syst. Appl., vol. 237, Mar. 2024, Art.
no. 121410.
[52] W. C. de Melo, E. Granger, and M. B. Lopez, “Facial expression analysis
using decomposed multiscale spatiotemporal networks,” Expert Syst.
Appl., vol. 236, Feb. 2024, Art. no. 121276.
[53] M. Niu, Y. Li, J. Tao, X. Zhou, and B. W. Schuller, “DepressionMLP:
A multi-layer perceptron architecture for automatic depression level
prediction via facial keypoints and action units,” IEEE Trans. Circuits
Syst. Video Technol., vol. 34, no. 9, pp. 8924–8938, Sep. 2024.
[54] S. Zhang et al., “MTDAN: A lightweight multi-scale temporal diﬀerence
attention networks for automated video depression detection,” IEEE
Trans. Aﬀect. Comput., vol. 15, no. 3, pp. 1078–1089, Jul. 2024.
[55] J. Xu, H. Gunes, K. Kusumam, M. Valstar, and S. Song, “Two-stage
temporal modelling framework for video-based depression recognition
using graph representation,” IEEE Trans. Aﬀect. Comput., vol. 16, no. 1,
pp. 161–178, Jan. 2025.
[56] Y. Wang, Z. Lin, C. Yang, Y. Zhou, and Y. Yang, “Automatic depression
recognition with an ensemble of multimodal spatio-temporal routing
features,” IEEE Trans. Aﬀect. Comput., vol. 16, no. 3, pp. 1855–1872,
Mar. 2025.
[57] Y. Li, Z. Wei, G. Guo, and X. Zhou, “MemRank: Memory-augmented
similarity ranking for video-based depression severity estimation,” IEEE
Trans. Aﬀect. Comput., vol. 16, no. 3, pp. 2062–2073, Jul. 2025.
[58] L. He et al., “LMTformer: Facial depression recognition with lightweight
multi-scale transformer from videos,” Int. J. Speech Technol., vol. 55,
no. 3, p. 195, Feb. 2025.
[59] Z. Wu et al., “Depmgnn: Matrixial graph neural network for video-based
automatic depression assessment,” in Proc. AAAI Conf. Artif. Intell.,
vol. 39, 2025, pp. 1610–1619.
[60] M. K¨achele, M. Glodek, D. Zharkov, S. Meudt, and F. Schwenker,
“Fusion of audio-visual features using hierarchical classiﬁer systems
for the recognition of aﬀective states and the state of depression,”
Depression, vol. 1, no. 1, pp. 671–678, 2014.
[61] N. Cummins, J. Joshi, A. Dhall, V. Sethu, R. Goecke, and J. Epps,
“Diagnosis of depression by behavioural signals: A multimodal
approach,” in Proc. 3rd ACM Int. Workshop Audio/Visual Emotion
Challenge, Oct. 2013, pp. 11–20.
[62] H. Meng, D. Huang, H. Wang, H. Yang, M. AI-Shuraiﬁ, and Y. Wang,
“Depression recognition based on dynamic facial and vocal expression
features using partial least square regression,” in Proc. 3rd ACM Int.
Workshop Audio/Visual Emotion Challenge, Oct. 2013, pp. 21–30.
[63] H. Kaya, F. C¸ illi, and A. A. Salah, “Ensemble CCA for continuous
emotion prediction,” in Proc. 4th Int. Workshop Audio/Visual Emotion
Challenge, Nov. 2014, pp. 19–26.
[64] X. Ma, D. Huang, Y. Wang, and Y. Wang, “Cost-sensitive two-stage
depression prediction using dynamic visual clues,” in Proc. 13th Asian
Conf. Comput. Vis., Taipei, Taiwan. Cham, Switzerland: Springer, Nov.
2017, pp. 338–351.
[65] P. Kumar, S. Misra, Z. Shao, B. Zhu, B. Raman, and X. Li, “Multimodal
interpretable depression analysis using visual,” in Proc. IEEE/CVF
Winter Conf. Appl. Comput. Vis. (WACV), Oct. 2025, pp. 5305–5315.
[66] Z. Lin, Y. Wang, Y. Zhou, F. Du, and Y. Yang, “STE-Mamba: Automated
multimodal depression detection through emotional analysis and spatio-
temporal information ensemble,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Acoust.,
Speech Signal Process. (ICASSP), Apr. 2025, pp. 1–5.
[67] J. Liu, Y. Shang, M. Yang, Z. Shao, J. Lu, and T. Liu, “MFMamba:
A multimodal fusion state space model for depression recognition,” in
Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Acoust., Speech Signal Process. (ICASSP), Apr.
2025, pp. 1–5.
[68] R. Gupta et al., “Multimodal prediction of aﬀective dimensions and
depression in human–computer interactions,” in Proc. 4th Int. Workshop
Audio/Visual Emotion Challenge, Nov. 2014, pp. 33–40.
[69] J. R. Williamson, T. F. Quatieri, B. S. Helfer, G. Ciccarelli, and
D. D. Mehta, “Vocal and facial biomarkers of depression based on motor
incoordination and timing,” in Proc. 4th Int. Workshop Audio/Visual
Emotion Challenge, Nov. 2014, pp. 65–72.
[70] S. Cholet, H. Paugam-Moisy, and S. Regis, “Bidirectional associative
memory for multimodal fusion: A depression evaluation case study,” in
Proc. Int. Joint Conf. Neural Netw. (IJCNN), Jul. 2019, pp. 1–6.
Mingyue Niu received the Ph.D. degree from the
National Laboratory of Pattern Recognition (NLPR),
Institute of Automation, Chinese Academy of Sci-
ences (CASIA). He is a Lecturer with the School
of Information Science and Engineering, Yanshan
University. He’s building a human-centered intel-
ligent computing team. He had published many
articles in IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON AFFECTIVE
COMPUTING, ICASSP, and INTERSPEECH. His
research interests include aﬀective computing and
multimodal learning.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Yanshan University. Downloaded on April 20,2026 at 00:36:17 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
2664
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON CIRCUITS AND SYSTEMS FOR VIDEO TECHNOLOGY, VOL. 36, NO. 2, FEBRUARY 2026
Zhuhong Shao received the M.S. degree in elec-
trical engineering from Beijing Jiaotong University,
Beijing, China, in 2011, and the Ph.D. degree in
computer science and technology from Southeast
University, Nanjing, China, in 2015. He is cur-
rently an Associate Professor with the College of
Information Engineering, Capital Normal University,
Beijing. His research interests include computer
vision and multimedia information security.
Yongjun He (Member, IEEE) received the Ph.D.
degree from the School of Computer Science, Harbin
Institute of Technology, Harbin, in 2008. He is
currently a Full Professor with the School of Com-
puter Science and Technology, Harbin University
of Science and Technology. His research interests
include speaker recognition, speech recognition, and
machine learning.
Jianhua Tao (Senior Member, IEEE) received the
Ph.D. degree from Tsinghua University in 2001. He
is a Professor with the Department of Automation,
Tsinghua University. He has directed many national
projects, including “863” and the National Natural
Science Foundation of China. He has published
more than 80 articles in journals and proceed-
ings, including IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON AUDIO,
SPEECH, AND LANGUAGE PROCESSING, ICASSP,
and INTERSPEECH. His interests include speech
synthesis, aﬀective computing, and pattern recogni-
tion. He serves as a Steering Committee Member for IEEE TRANSACTIONS
ON AFFECTIVE COMPUTING and the chair or a program committee member
for major conferences, including ICPR and INTERSPEECH.
Bj¨orn W. Schuller (Fellow, IEEE) received the
Ph.D. degree from Technische Universit¨at M¨unchen,
Germany. He is a Professor of artiﬁcial intelligence
with the Department of Computing, Imperial College
London, U.K., and a Full Professor and the Head of
the Chair of Embedded Intelligence for Health Care
and Wellbeing, University of Augsburg, Germany.
He (co-)authored ﬁve books and more than 1000
publications in peer-reviewed books, journals, and
conference proceedings. He is a Fellow of ISCA and
a Senior Member of ACM. He is the Field Chief
Editor of Frontiers in Digital Health, the President-Emeritus of AAAC, and
Golden Core Awardee of the IEEE Computer Society.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Yanshan University. Downloaded on April 20,2026 at 00:36:17 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
